{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red10\green0\blue109;
\red28\green28\blue28;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;
\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa28\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 English Country Dance\
\ls1\ilvl0\cb1 \strokec5 #E\
#Europe\
#Couple #Group\
#Easy\
#Social #Participatory\
#Varied \
#Pattern-based\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf5 \cb3 A 
\b country dance
\b0  is any of a large number of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 social dances}} of the British Isles in which couples dance together in a figure or "set", each dancer dancing to his or her partner and each couple dancing to the other couples in the set. A set consists most commonly of two or three couples, sometimes four and rarely five or six. Often dancers follow a "caller" who names each change in the figures.\
Introduced to France and then Germany and Italy in the course of the 17th century, country dances gave rise to the 
\i contradanse
\i0 , one of the significant {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Dance_forms_in_classical_music"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 dance forms in classical music}}. Introduced to America by French immigrants, it remains popular in the United States as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contra_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 contra dance}} and had great influence upon Latin American music as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contradanza"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 contradanza}}. The 
\i Anglais
\i0  (from the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/French_language"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 French}} word meaning "English") or 
\i Angloise
\i0  is another term for the English country dance.
\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf4 \super \strokec4  
\fs28 \cf5 \nosupersub \strokec5 A {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scottish_country_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Scottish country dance}} may be termed an {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecossaise"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \strokec4 Ecossaise}}. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irish_set_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Irish set dance}} is also related.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs36 \cf6 \strokec6 Characteristics\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf5 \strokec5 The term "country dance" may refer to any of a large number of figure-dances that originated on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Village_green"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 village greens}}. The term applies to dances in line formation, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circle_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 circle dances}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Square_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 square dances}} and even triangular sets for three couples.\
However the most common formation is the "longways" set in which men and women form two lines facing each other. The "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roger_de_Coverley"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Roger de Coverley}}", which was for some time the only well-known country dance in England, and "The Grand Old Duke of York" are among the most familiar examples of this kind of dance. Couples form two lines along which each travels at the end of each iteration of figures, meeting new couples and repeating the series of figures many times. Alternatively, dances can be finite, a set forming an independent unit within which the series of figures is repeated a limited number of times. These dances are often non-progressive, each couple retaining their original positions.\
Country dancing is intended for general participation, unlike folk dances such as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clogging"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 clogging}}, which are primarily {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concert_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 concert dances}}, and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ballroom_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 ballroom dances}} in which dancers dance with their partners independently of others. Bright, rhythmic and simple, country dances had appeal as a refreshing finale to an evening of stately dances such as the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minuet"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 minuet}}.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf6 \strokec6 History
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf5 \strokec5 Country dances began to influence country dance in the 15th century and became particularly popular at the court of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_I_of_England"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Elizabeth I of England}}. Many references to country dancing and titles shared with known 17th-century dances appear from this time, though few of these can be shown to refer to English country dance. While some early features resemble the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morris_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 morris dance}} and other early styles, the influence of the courtly dances of Continental Europe, especially those of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Italian_Renaissance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Renaissance Italy}}, may also be seen, and it is probable that English country dance was affected by these at an early date. Little is known of these dances before the mid-17th century.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Playford"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 John Playford}}'s {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_English_Dancing_Master"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \strokec4 The English Dancing Master}} (1651) listed over a hundred tunes, each with its step. This was enormously popular, reprinted constantly for 80 years and much enlarged. Playford and his successors had a practical monopoly on the publication of dance manuals until 1711, and ceased publishing around 1728. During this period English country dances took a variety of forms including finite sets for two, three and four couples as well as circles and squares.
\fs24\fsmilli12370 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf5 \cb3 The country dance was introduced to the court of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louis_XIV"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Louis XIV}} of France, where it became known as 
\i contredanse
\i0 , and later to Germany and Italy. Andr\'e9 Lorin, who visited the English court in the late 17th century, presented a manuscript of dances in the English manner to Louis XIV on his return to France. In 1706 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raoul_Auger_Feuillet"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Raoul Auger Feuillet}} published his 
\i Rec\'fceil de Contredances
\i0 , a collection of "
\i contredanses anglaises
\i0 " presented in a simplified form of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beauchamp-Feuillet_notation"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Beauchamp-Feuillet notation}} and including some dances invented by the author as well as authentic English dances. This was subsequently translated into English by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Essex"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 John Essex}} and published in England as 
\i For the Further Improvement of Dancing
\i0 .\
By the 1720s the term 
\i contradanse
\i0  had come to refer to longways sets for three and two couples, which would remain normative until English country dance's eclipse. The earliest French works refer only to the longways form as 
\i contradanse
\i0 , which allowed the false etymology of "a dance in which lines dance opposite one another". The square-set type also had its vogue in France during the later 18th century as the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quadrille"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 quadrille}} and the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cotillion"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 cotillion}}. These usually require a group of eight people, a couple along each side. "\cf4 \strokec4 Les Lanciers\cf5 \strokec5 ", a descendant of the 
\i quadrille
\i0 , and the "Eightsome Reel" are examples of this kind of dance. Dancing in square sets still survives in Ireland, under the name \cf4 \strokec4 "set dancing"\cf5 \strokec5  or "figure dancing".\
For some time British publishers issued annual collections of these dances in popular pocket-books. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jane_Austen"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Jane Austen}}, \cf4 \strokec4 Charles Dickens\cf5 \strokec5  and \cf4 \strokec4 Thomas Hardy\cf5 \strokec5  all loved country dancing and put detailed descriptions into their novels. But the vogue for the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Waltz"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 waltz}} and the 
\i quadrille
\i0  ousted the country dance from English ballrooms in the early 19th century, though \cf4 \strokec4 Scottish country dance\cf5 \strokec5  remained popular.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf6 \strokec6 Influence
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf5 \strokec5 The French 
\i contredanse
\i0 , arriving independently in the American colonies, became the New England \cf4 \strokec4 contra dance\cf5 \strokec5 , which experienced a resurgence in the mid-20th century. The quadrille evolved into square dance in the United States while in Ireland it contributed to the development of modern \cf4 \strokec4 Irish set dance\cf5 \strokec5 . English country dance in \cf4 \strokec4 Scotland\cf5 \strokec5  developed its own flavour and became the separate \cf4 \strokec4 Scottish country dance\cf5 \strokec5 . \cf4 \strokec4 English Ceilidh\cf5 \strokec5  is a special case, being a convergence of English, Irish and Scottish forms. In addition certain English country dances survived independently in the popular repertoire. One such is the \cf4 \strokec4 Virginia Reel\cf5 \strokec5 , which is almost exactly the same as the 'Sir Roger de Coverley'.\
The 
\i \cf4 \strokec4 contradanza
\i0 \cf5 \strokec5 , the Spanish and Spanish-American version of the French 
\i contradanse
\i0 , became an internationally popular style of music and dance in the 18th century. The 
\i contradanza
\i0  was popular in Spain and spread throughout Spanish America during the 18th century, where it took on folkloric forms that still exist in Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia, Peru, Panama and Ecuador. In Cuba during the 19th century the 
\i contradanza
\i0  became an important genre, the ancestor of \cf4 \strokec4 danzon\cf5 \strokec5 , \cf4 \strokec4 mambo\cf5 \strokec5  and \cf4 \strokec4 cha cha cha\cf5 \strokec5 . Haitians fleeing the \cf4 \strokec4 Haitian Revolution\cf5 \strokec5  of 1791 brought to the Cuban version a Creole influence and a new syncopation.\
The 
\i Engelska
\i0  (\cf4 \strokec4 Swedish\cf5 \strokec5  for "English") or \cf4 \strokec4 Danish\cf5 \strokec5  
\i Engelsk
\i0  is a 16-bar Scandinavian folk dance in 
\f1\b\fs22\fsmilli11200 \dn9 2/4
\f0\b0\fs28 \up0 . Its name comes from the adoption in Scandinavia of \cf4 \strokec4 English country dances\cf5 \strokec5  and contra dances in the early 19th century. In Denmark the description "Engelsk" was used for both line and square dances of English origin.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \
}