{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red28\green28\blue28;\red10\green0\blue109;\red82\green35\blue83;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;\cssrgb\c40000\c20000\c40000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Chicken Dance\
#C\
#Europe\
#Group\
#Easy\
#Social #Participatory #Circular\
#Slow\
#Pattern-based\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 \strokec5 The "
\b Chicken Dance
\b0 ", also known as the 
\b Birdie Song
\b0  or the 
\b Chicken Song
\b0 , is an \strokec6 oom-pah\strokec5  song and its associated \strokec6 fad dance\strokec5  is now a contemporary dance throughout the \strokec6 Western world\strokec5 . The song was composed by \strokec6 accordion\strokec5  (Handharmonika) player \strokec6 Werner Thomas\strokec5  from \strokec6 Davos\strokec5 , Switzerland, in the 1950s.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \strokec3 History
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec5 The name of the original Swiss song was "Der Ententanz" (The Duck Dance). It is rumored to be a drinking song sung at \strokec6 Oktoberfest\strokec5 . Sometime in the late 1970s, the song acquired the name "Vogeltanz" (The Bird Dance) or "Vogerltanz" (Little Bird Dance or Birdie Dance), although these names never caught on seriously in Germany. On some sheet music and recordings it is called "Dance Little Bird". It appears that no one in Germany uses the term "K\'fckentanz" or "Huhn/H\'fchnertanz" (K\'fcken means chick, Huhn/H\'fchner means chicken (sg./pl.)). Since 1963 Werner Thomas had played it in restaurants and hotels. During one of Thomas' performances, Belgian producer Louis van Rijmenant heard the song. Van Rijmenant had some lyrics created and in 1970 released it to the public through his publishing company Intervox Music (later on co-publishing with his other company Eurovox Music) without much success. However, on subsequent releases of the song, Van Rijmenant was listed as co-author under the pen name of Terry Rendall. Eurovox Music now manages the publishing rights worldwide, except for the US (September Music), UK (Valentine Music) and the Netherlands (Benelux Music), sub-publishers. The dance and song was originally brought from Germany to the US by Eddie Duling and Larry Karhoff of Glandorf Ohio in 1974.\
In 1980, Dutch local band "De Electronica's" released an instrumental version called "De Vogeltjesdans" ("The dance of the little birds") as the B-side of a single. The A-side was not a hit, but local radio stations in the south and east of the Netherlands decided to flip the disc and started playing "De Vogeltjesdans". The record entered the Dutch charts and stayed there for over seven months, and started the international success of the song. On some recorded releases of the music Werner Thomas is listed as the sole composer, while on others other authors are listed, e.g., as "Thomas/Rendall/Hoes", the last name referring to Dutch singer/producer Johnny Hoes, who re-arranged the song for the Electronicas recording (which was released on Hoes' own record label, Telstar Records). He also wrote new Dutch lyrics for the song, although the Electronicas version is an instrumental one (Hoes himself recorded the vocal version, but that did not become a hit).\cb1 \
\cb4 Since then the song has become known under numerous other "birdie" names, including "
\i \strokec7 Vogerltanz
\i0 \strokec5 " (Bird Dance), "Danse des Canards", "Baile de los Pajaritos", "Chicken Dance" and "Dance Little Bird". Over 140 versions of it are recorded worldwide, including various versions that were released by \strokec6 Walt Disney Records\strokec5 , together making over 40,000,000 records.\
The dance was reintroduced in the United States in 1981 during the Tulsa, Oklahoma, Oktoberfest. They wanted to demonstrate their love through dance in costumes, but there were no duck costumes available anywhere near Tulsa. At a local television station, however, a chicken costume was available which was donated for use at the festival, giving the "Chicken Dance" its name.\
In 1982, polka-loving cover band "The Emeralds", from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, recorded a polka-inspired version of the song, released by K-Tel records. The album "Bird Dance" went double-platinum in Canada, and gold in Australia. The song also contributed to the success of multiple gold albums for the Emeralds in 1983 and 1984. The song went on to further fame when it was used in two movies: \strokec6 John Paizs\strokec5 's cult classic \strokec6 Crime Wave\strokec5 , and Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \strokec3 Chart success\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \strokec5 In 1981 \strokec6 Henry Hadaway\strokec5  produced a version of the "Chicken Dance", which was released in the United Kingdom as an \strokec6 instrumental\strokec5  \strokec6 novelty tune\strokec5  "The Birdie Song" by The Tweets. It reached number two in the singles chart in October 1981, making it the most popular version.\super \strokec6  \nosupersub \strokec5 In 2000, this version was voted "the most annoying song of all time" in a poll commissioned for the website \strokec6 dotmusic\strokec5 .The song is often sung with lyrics 
\i with a little bit of this and a little bit of that
\i0  and 
\i shake your bum
\i0  to the tune. Alternative lyrics are "I don't want to be a chicken, I don't want to be a duck, So I shake my butt, Quack, quack, quack, quack!"\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \strokec3 Dance steps\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \strokec5 The "Chicken Dance" song is accompanied by a \strokec6 dance\strokec5  requiring a \strokec6 group of people\strokec5 , and it goes as follows:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa28\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 At the start of the music, shape a chicken beak with your hands. Open and close them four times, during the first four beats of the music.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Make chicken wings with your arms. Flap your wings four times, during the next four beats of the music.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Make a chicken's tail feathers with your arms and hands. Wiggle downwards during the next four beats of the music.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Clap four times during the next four beats of the music while rising to your feet.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Repeat this process four times.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 At the bridge, hold your arms straight, in imitation of an aeroplane. All dancers spin around the room in "flight" until the bridge ends.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 (Alternately: At the bridge, \strokec6 link arms with the nearest person\strokec5 , turn right eight steps, switch arms and turn left eight steps, then repeat until the bridge ends)\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 (Alternatively: Assume close position with partner and polka until bridge ends.)\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 The dance repeats, progressively getting faster and faster, until the music stops.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb4 \strokec3 Notable performances\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \strokec5 The \strokec6 Oktoberfest Zinzinnati\strokec5  in \strokec6 Cincinnati\strokec5 , Ohio, holds a "World's Largest Chicken Dance" annually. There were 48,000 participants in 1994. On 20 September 2004, \strokec6 rock\strokec5  musician \strokec6 Vince Neil\strokec5  served as Grand Marshal. In a compilation of the 
\i 40 Least Metal Moments
\i0 , the U.S. cable television channel \strokec6 VH1\strokec5  panned this performance as the single 
\i least
\i0  metal moment in \strokec6 heavy metal\strokec5  history.\
In 2006, the Chicken Dance opened \strokec6 "Weird Al" Yankovic\strokec5 's polka medley "\strokec6 Polkarama!\strokec5 " from his album 
\i \strokec6 Straight Outta Lynwood
\i0 \strokec5 .\
On 13 November 2009, \strokec6 CIHT-FM\strokec5  played the Chicken Dance continuously until 389 Tickets for the CHEO Dream of a Lifetime were purchased at $US100 each, to support the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario. This played for over 3 hours.\cb1 \
\cb4 In a fund raiser for \strokec6 Helen DeVos Children's Hospital\strokec5 , an attempt at the world's largest chicken dance record was held at \strokec6 Byron Center, Michigan\strokec5 , US on 23 April 2010, at Jake's restaurant, the site of a giant plastic chicken sculpture.\
During the 2015-2016 \strokec6 NHL\strokec5  season, the \strokec6 Philadelphia Flyers\strokec5  had the chicken dance played over the PA system\super \strokec6  \nosupersub \strokec5 at the \strokec6 Wells Fargo Center\strokec5  every time the Flyers scored 4 goals in that game. The Flyers had a partnership with \strokec6 Chick-Fil-A\strokec5  where customers could get free breakfast sandwiches from Chick-Fil-A the day after every game where the Flyers score 4 goals or more.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec3 \
\
\
}