{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red28\green28\blue28;\red9\green47\blue157;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bharatanatyam\
#B\
#Asia - India\
#Solo\
#Hard\
#Formal Performance\
#Varied\
#Patern-based\
\
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-A2F0vOwyZM\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Bharatanatyam
\b0  or 
\b Bharathanatiyam
\b0  is a major genre of Indian classical dance that originated in the Hindu temples of Tamil Nadu and neighboring regions.\super  \nosupersub Traditionally, Bharatanatyam has been a solo dance that was performed exclusively by women, and expressed Hindu religious themes and spiritual ideas, particularly of Shaivism, but also of Vaishnavism and Shaktism.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bharatanatyam's theoretical foundations trace to the ancient Sanskrit text 
\i Natya Shastra
\i0 , its existence by 2nd century CE is noted in the ancient Tamil epic 
\i Silappatikaram
\i0 , while temple sculptures of 6th to 9th century CE suggest it was a well refined performance art by mid 1st millennium CE. Bharatanatyam is quite possibly the oldest classical dance tradition of India.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bharatanatyam style is noted for its fixed upper torso, legs bent or knees flexed out combined with spectacular footwork, a sophisticated vocabulary of sign language based on gestures of hands, eyes and face muscles. The dance is accompanied by music and a singer, and typically her guru is present as the director and conductor of the performance. The dance has traditionally been a form of an interpretive narration of mythical legends and spiritual ideas from the Hindu texts. The performance repertoire of Bharatanatyam, like other classical dances, includes 
\i nrita
\i0  (pure dance), 
\i nritya
\i0  (solo expressive dance) and 
\i natya
\i0  (group dramatic dance).\cb1 \
\cb3 Bharatanatyam remained exclusive to Hindu temples through the 19th century, was banned by the colonial British government in 1910, the Indian community protested the ban and expanded it outside the temples in the 20th century. Modern stage productions of Bharatanatyam have incorporated technical performances, pure dance based on non-religious ideas and fusion themes.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf5 \cb3 Etymology\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \cb3 The term Bharatanatyam is a compound of two words, Bharata and Natyam.\cb1 \
\cb3 The term Bharata in Bharatanaytam, in the Hindu tradition, is not named after the famous performance art sage to whom the ancient Natya Shastra is attributed. The tradition states that the word Bharata is a mnemonic, consisting of "bha"\'96"ra"\'96"ta". The bha stands for bhava (feelings, emotions), ra stands for raga (melody, framework for musical notes), and ta stands for tala (rhythm). The term Natyam is a Sanskrit word for "dance". The compound word Bharatanatyam thus connotes a dance which harmoniously expresses "bhava, raga and tala".\cb1 \
\cb3 In its history, Bharatanatyam has also been called Sadir.\

\b History \

\b0 The theoretical foundations of Bharatanatyam are found in 
\i Natya Shastra
\i0 , the ancient Hindu text of performance arts.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\i \cf2 \cb3 Natya Shastra
\i0  is attributed to the ancient scholar Bharata Muni, and its first complete compilation is dated to between 200\'a0BCE and 200\'a0CE, but estimates vary between 500\'a0BCE and 500\'a0CE.\super  \nosupersub The most studied version of the Natya Shastra text consists of about 6000 verses structured into 36 chapters. The text, states Natalia Lidova, describes the theory of T\uc0\u257 \u7751 \u7693 ava dance (Shiva), the theory of rasa, of bh\uc0\u257 va, expression, gestures, acting techniques, basic steps, standing postures \'96 all of which are part of Indian classical dances. Dance and performance arts, states this ancient text, are a form of expression of spiritual ideas, virtues and the essence of scriptures.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 More direct historical references to Bharatnatyam is found in the Tamil epics 
\i Silappatikaram
\i0  (~2nd century CE) and 
\i Manimegalai
\i0  (~6th century). The ancient text 
\i Silappatikaram
\i0 , includes a story of a dancing girl named Madhavi; it describes the dance training regimen called 
\i Arangatrau Kathai
\i0  of Madhavi in verses 113 through 159. The carvings in Kanchipuram's Shiva temple that have been dated to 6th to 9th century CE suggest Bharatanatyam was a well developed performance art by about the mid 1st millennium CE.\cb1 \
\cb3 A famous example of illustrative sculpture is in the southern gateway of the Chidambaram temple (~12th century) dedicated to Hindu god Shiva, where 108 poses of the Bharatnatyam, that are also described as karanas in the 
\i Natya Shastra
\i0 , are carved in stone.\cb1 \
\cb3 Many of the ancient Shiva sculptures in Hindu temples are same as the Bharata Natyam dance poses. For example, the Cave 1 of Badami cave temples, dated to 7th-century, portrays the Tandava-dancing Shiva as Nataraja. The image, 5 feet (1.5\'a0m) tall, has 18 arms in a form that expresses the dance positions arranged in a geometric pattern\super .\nosupersub  The arms of Shiva express mudras (symbolic hand gestures), that are found in Bharatanatyam.\cb1 \
\cb3 Bharatanatyam, state Allen Noble and Ashok Dutt, has been "a major source of inspiration to the musicians, poets, painters, singers and sculptors" in Indian history.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Devadasis, anti-dance movement, colonial ban and the decline\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \cb3 Some colonial Indologists and modern authors have stated Bharatanatyam is a descendant of an ancient 
\i Devadasi
\i0  (literally, servant girls of Deva temples) culture, suggesting historical origins to 300 BCE to 300 CE. Modern scholarship has questioned this theory for lack of any direct textual or archeological evidence. Historic sculpture and texts do describe and project dancing girls, as well as temple quarters dedicated to women, but they do not state them to be courtesans and prostitutes alleged by early colonial Indologists. According to Davesh Soneji, a critical examination of evidence suggest that the courtesan dancing is a modern era phenomena, which began in late 16th or 17th century of the Nayaka period of Tamil Nadu. According to James Lochtefeld, Bharatanatyam remained exclusive to Hindu temples through the 19th century, and it appeared on stage outside the temples only in the 20th century.\cb1 \
\cb3 With the arrival of colonial East India Company officials rule in the 18th century, and the establishment of British colonial rule in 19th, many classical Indian dance forms were ridiculed and discouraged, and these performance arts declined.\super [40]\nosupersub  Christian missionaries and British officials presented "nautch girls" of north India (Kathak) and "devadasis" of south India (Bharatanatyam) as evidence of "harlots, debased erotic culture, slavery to idols and priests" tradition, and Christian missionaries demanded that this must be stopped, launching the "anti-dance movement" in 1892. The anti-dance camp accused the dance form as a front for prostitution, while revivalists questioned the constructed histories by the colonial writers.\cb1 \
\cb3 In 1910, the Madras Presidency of the British Empire altogether banned temple dancing, and with it the Bharatanatyam tradition within Hindu temples.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Post colonial era: revival and rebirth\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \cb3 The 1910 ban triggered powerful protests against the stereotyping and dehumanization of temple dancers. The Tamil people were concerned that a historic and rich dance tradition was being victimized under the excuse of social reform. The classical art revivalists such as E. Krishna Iyer, a lawyer and someone who had learnt the Bharatanatyam dance, questioned the cultural discrimination and the assumed connection, asking why prostitution needs years of learning and training for performance arts such as the Bharatanatyam, and how can killing performance arts end any evils in a society? Iyer was arrested and sentenced to prison on charges of nationalism, who while serving out his prison term persuaded his fellow political prisoners to support Bharatanatyam.\cb1 \
\cb3 While the British colonial government enforced laws to suppress Bharatanatyam and all Hindu temple dances, some from the West such as the American dancer Esther Sherman moved to India in 1930, learnt Indian classical dances, changed her name to Ragini Devi, and joined the movement to save and revive Bharatanatyam and other ancient dance arts.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Indian independence movement in early 20th century, already in progress, became a period of cultural ferment and initiated an effort by its people to reclaim their culture and rediscover history. In this period of cultural and political turmoil, instead of Bharatnatyam becoming extinct, it expanded out of Hindu temples and was revived as a mainstream dance by Bharatnatyam artists such as Rukmini Devi Arundale and Balasaraswati.They championed and performed the Pandanallur (Kalakshetra) and Thanjavur styles of Bharatanatyam respectively.\cb1 \
\cb3 In late 20th century, Tamil Hindu migrants reintroduced the Bharatanatyam traditions of temple dancing in British Tamil temples.}