{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red28\green28\blue28;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red10\green0\blue109;\red82\green35\blue83;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;\cssrgb\c40000\c20000\c40000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Flamenco\
#F\
#Europe\
#Solo\
#Moderate\
#Social #Formal Performance\
#Varied\
#Pattern-based\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf3 \cb4 \strokec3 Flamenco
\b0 , in its strictest sense, is a professionalized art-form based on the various folkloric music traditions of Southern Spain. In a wider sense, it refers to these musical traditions and more modern musical styles which have, themselves been deeply influenced and become blurred with the development of flamenco over the past two centuries. It includes 
\i \cf5 \strokec5 cante
\i0 \cf3 \strokec3  (singing), 
\i \cf5 \strokec5 toque
\i0 \cf3 \strokec3  (guitar playing), 
\i baile
\i0  (dance), 
\i jaleo
\i0  (vocalizations), 
\i \cf5 \strokec5 palmas
\i0 \cf3 \strokec3  (handclapping) and 
\i pitos
\i0  (finger snapping).\
The oldest record of flamenco dates to 1774 in the book 
\i Las Cartas Marruecas
\i0  by \cf5 \strokec5 Jos\'e9 Cadalso\cf3 \strokec3 . The genre originated in the \cf5 \strokec5 music and dance styles of Andalusia\cf3 \strokec3 . Flamenco has been influenced by and become associated with the \cf5 \strokec5 Romani people in Spain\cf3 \strokec3 , however, unlike Romani music \cf5 \strokec5 Eastern Europe\cf3 \strokec3 , its origin and style is uniquely Andalusian.\
In recent years, flamenco has become popular all over the world and is taught in many non-Hispanic countries, especially the United States and Japan. In {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japan"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Japan}}, there are more flamenco academies than there are in Spain. On November 16, 2010, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UNESCO"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 UNESCO}} declared flamenco one of the \cf5 \strokec5 Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity\cf3 \strokec3 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf2 \strokec2 Etymology
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf3 \strokec3 There are many suggestions for the origin of the word 
\i flamenco
\i0  as a musical term (summarized below) but no solid evidence for any of them. The word was not recorded as a musical and dance term until the late 18th century.\
The Spanish word 
\i \cf6 \strokec6 flamenco
\i0 \cf3 \strokec3  could have been a derivative of "\cf5 \strokec5 fire\cf3 \strokec3 " or "flame". The word 
\i flamenco
\i0  may have come to be used for fiery behaviour, which could have come to be applied to the Gitano players and performers.\
Another theory, proposed by Andalusian historian and nationalist \cf5 \strokec5 Blas Infante\cf3 \strokec3  in his 1933 book 
\i Or\'edgenes de lo Flamenco y Secreto del Cante Jondo
\i0  suggested that the word 
\i flamenco
\i0  comes from the Hispano-\cf5 \strokec5 Arabic\cf3 \strokec3  term 
\i \cf5 \strokec5 fellah mengu
\i0 \cf3 \strokec3 , meaning "expelled peasant"; Infante argued that this term referred to the Andalusians of the \cf5 \strokec5 Islamic\cf3 \strokec3  faith, the \cf5 \strokec5 Moriscos\cf3 \strokec3 , who in order to avoid religious persecution, joined with the Roma newcomers.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28\fsmilli14400 \cf2 \strokec2 Baile (dance)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\i\b0\fs28 \cf3 \strokec3 El baile flamenco
\i0  is known for its emotional intensity, proud carriage, expressive use of the arms and rhythmic stamping of the feet (often confused with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tap_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 tap dance}} or {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irish_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Irish dance}} but with a completely different technique). As with any dance form, many different styles of flamenco have developed.\
In the twentieth century, flamenco danced informally at gitano (Roma) celebrations in Spain was considered the most "authentic" form of flamenco. There is less virtuoso technique in gitano flamenco, but the music and steps are fundamentally the same. The arms are noticeably different from classical flamenco, curving around the head and body rather than extending, often with a bent elbow.
\fs24\fsmilli12370 \cb1 \

\fs28 \cb4 "Flamenco puro" is considered the form of performance flamenco closest to its gitano influences. In this style, the dance is always performed solo, and is improvised rather than choreographed. Some purists frown on castanets (even though they can be seen in many early 20th century photos of flamenco dancers).\
"Classical flamenco" is the style most frequently performed by Spanish flamenco dance companies, tending to exhibit more clearly the characteristics derived from the Seguidilla, a traditional Spanish dance. It is danced largely in a proud and upright way. For women, the back is often held in a marked back bend. Unlike the more gitano influenced styles, there is little movement of the hips, the body is tightly held and the arms are long, like a ballet dancer. In fact many of the dancers in these companies have trained in ballet as well as flamenco. Flamenco has both influenced and been influenced by ballet, as evidenced by the fusion of the two created by 'La Argentinita' in the early part of the twentieth century and later, by Joaqu\'edn Cort\'e9s.\
In the 1950s Jose Greco was one of the most famous male Flamenco dancers, performing on stage worldwide and on television including the Ed Sullivan Show, and reviving the art almost singlehandedly.\
Modern flamenco is a highly technical dance style requiring years of study. The emphasis for both male and female performers is on lightning-fast footwork performed with absolute precision. In addition, the dancer may have to dance while using props such as castanets, shawls and fans.\
"\cf5 \strokec5 Flamenco nuevo\cf3 \strokec3 " is a recent style in flamenco, characterized by pared-down costumes (the men often dance bare-chested, and the women in plain jersey dresses). Props such as castanets, fans and shawls are rarely used. Dances are choreographed and include influences from other dance styles.
\fs24\fsmilli12370 \cb1 \

\fs28 \cb4 The flamenco most foreigners are familiar with is a style that was developed as a spectacle for tourists. To add variety, group dances are included and even solos are more likely to be choreographed. The frilly, voluminous spotted dresses are derived from a style of dress worn for the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sevillanas"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Sevillanas}} at the annual {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seville_Fair"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Feria}} in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seville"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Seville}}.\
In traditional flamenco, young people are not considered to have the emotional maturity to adequately convey the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duende_(art)"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf5 \strokec5 duende}} (soul) of the genre. Therefore, unlike other dance forms, where dancers turn professional early to take advantage of youth and strength, many flamenco dancers do not hit their peak until their thirties and will continue to perform into their fifties and beyond.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
}