{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red28\green28\blue28;\red255\green255\blue255;\red9\green47\blue157;
\red10\green0\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;
\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Allemande\
#A\
#Europe - Germany and France\
#Couple #Group\
#Easy\
#Participatory #Social\
#Slow\
#Pattern-based\
\
Video:\
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cZWDrjLO7r4\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The allemande originated in the 16th century as a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duple_metre"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 duple metre}} dance of moderate tempo, already considered very old, with a characteristic "double-knocking" upbeat of one or occasionally three sixteenth notes.It appears to have derived from a German dance but no identifiable dance and no German dance instructions from this era survive.\cb1 \
\cb3 The 16th century French dancing master {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thoinot_Arbeau"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Thoinot Arbeau}} and the British Inns of Court therefore preserve the first records of the allemande, in which dancers formed a line of couples who took hands and walked the length of the room, walking three steps then balancing on one foot. A livelier version, the allemande courante, used three springing steps and a hop.\cf4 \super  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabethan_era"}}{\fldrslt \nosupersub Elizabethan}}\cf2 \nosupersub  British composers wrote many "Almans" as separate pieces.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/France"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb3 French}}\cb3  composers of the 17th century experimented with the allemande, shifting to quadruple meter and ranging more widely in tempo. This slower allemande, like the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pavane"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 pavane}}, was adapted to the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tombeau"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 tombeau}} or memorial composition. The German composers {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johann_Jakob_Froberger"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Froberger}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johann_Sebastian_Bach"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Bach}} followed suit in their allemandes for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keyboard_instrument"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 keyboard instruments}}, although ensemble allemandes kept a more traditional style. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Italy"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Italian}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/England"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 English}} composers were more free with the allemande, writing in counterpoint and using a variety of tempi ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arcangelo_Corelli"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Corelli}} wrote allemandes ranging from largo to presto).\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 In his Musikalisches Lexicon (Leipzig, 1732), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johann_Gottfried_Walther"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Johann Gottfried Walther}} wrote that the allemande "must be composed and likewise danced in a grave and ceremonious manner." Likewise in Der Vollkommene Capellmeister (Hamburg, 1739) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johann_Mattheson"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Johann Mattheson}} described the allemande as "a serious and well-composed harmoniousness in arpeggiated style, expressing satisfaction or amusement, and delighting in order and calm".Its music is characterised by absence of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syncopation"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 syncopation}}, combination of short motifs into larger units and contrasts of tone and motif.\cb1 \
\cb3 Late in the 18th century, "allemande" came to be used for another type of dance in triple meter; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_Maria_von_Weber"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Weber's}} Douze allemandes op. 4 of 1801 anticipate the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Waltz"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 waltz}}. Mozart and Beethoven both produced sets of German Dances in this style.\cb1 \
\cb3 Some of the close embraces and turns of the allemande were carried over to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Squaredance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 squaredance}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contra_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 contra dance}}. In an allemande, couples hold one forearm and turn around each other to the left or right.}