{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red28\green28\blue28;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue0;\red9\green47\blue157;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 An Dro\
#A\
#Europe - France\
#Group\
#Easy\
#Social\
#Slow\
#Pattern-based\
\
Video:\
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lDOgzC3uEyE\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 An dro or en dro ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breton_language"}}{\fldrslt Breton}}: "The Turn") is a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brittany"}}{\fldrslt Breton}} folk dance in 4/4. It is a form of a circle dance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Technique
\b0 \cf0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb4 The dancers link little fingers in a long line, swinging their arms, and moving to their left by taking longer steps in that direction than when stepping right. In the generic case the arm movements consist first of two circular motions going up and back (at about chest level) followed by one in the opposite direction (down then front); these are done quite close to the body. This is then followed by a circle in the same sense as the last (down then front) but with full arm extension and extending behind the body. The cycle then repeats.\cf3 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 \cb4 Steps
\b0 \cf0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb4 Stepping is on the beat throughout, moving to the left on the close arm circles and in place (or sometimes to the right) on the second two. The stance is upright, with soft knees. A full set of steps takes 8 times, divided in two half-steps:\cf3 \cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf3 \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1st half-step, 4 times:\cb1 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf3 \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1st time: the left foot moves on the left\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl1\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2nd time: the right foot joins the left foot\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl1\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
3d time: the left foot moves again\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl1\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
4th time: the feet don't move, the body still supported by the left foot\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf3 \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2nd half-step, 4 times:\cb1 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf3 \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
5th time: the right foot joins the left foot\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl1\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
6th time: the left foot marks time (up & down in one time)\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl1\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
7th time: the right foot marks time (up & down in one time)\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl1\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
8th time: the feet don't move, the body stands on the right foot.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb4 It is easy to do this dance within a short time of practice; this allows full beginners to quickly join the line during the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fest_noz"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \cb4 festo\'f9 noz}}.\cf3 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 \cb4 Customs
\b0 \cf0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb4 At a bal there will be several lines forming, with the leader leading his/her line in some pattern. The leader (person at the left-hand end of the line) will lead the line into a spiral or double it back on itself to form patterns on the dance floor, and allow the dancers to see each other.\cf3 \cb1 \
\cf3 \cb4 An dros often have songs associated with them, and these are usually sung as a verse-chorus or call-response, with the leader singing the verses or calls. The musicians will sometimes play from the middle of the dance floor, and the dancers will then often form a spiral around them.}