{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset178 GeezaPro;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red28\green28\blue28;\red255\green255\blue255;\red9\green47\blue157;
\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Attan\
#A\
#Asia - Afganistan and Pakistan\
#Group\
#Easy\
#Social #Participatory\
#Varied\
#Pattern-based\
\
Video:\
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jUnb_2CryqQ\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Attan
\b0  ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pashto_language"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pashto}}: 
\f1\b \uc0\u8235 \'c7\'ca\uc0\u1724 
\f0\b0 \uc0\u8236 \uc0\u8206 ) is a form of dance that originated in the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pashtun_people"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pashtun}} regions of eastern {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Afghanistan"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Afghanistan}} and Northwest {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pakistan"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pakistan}}. Attan began as a folk dance conducted by Pashtuns in times of war or during weddings or other celebrations (engagements, new year, and informal gatherings). It is now considered the national dance of Afghanistan.\cf4 \super \
\cf2 \cb1 \nosupersub \
\cb3 The performance of attan dance in the open air has long been customary in the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pashtun_culture"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pashtun culture}}.\cf4 \super  \cf2 \nosupersub Attan is a special type of dance performed by a troupe of 50 to 100 dancers who wave red scarves in the air while musicians beat drums. This dance is common among the Pashtuns of Afghanistan and Pakistan and the ruling elite promoted it as the national dance of Afghanistan. It is also performed as a regional dance in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Khyber_Pakhtunkhwa"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 khyber Pakhtunkhwa}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federally_Administered_Tribal_Areas"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Federally Administered Tribal Areas}} region of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pakistan"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pakistan}}\cf4 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Origin\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \cb3 Attan is a traditional Pashtun dance. It is said to be one of the oldest forms of Pashtun pagan dance. Some identify attan as a religious ceremony of early {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zoroastrians"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb3 Zoroastrians}} placing its origins as early as 2000\'a0BCE, while others have placed even older going back to King Yama's celebration of Nowroz and warriors dancing and circling around the fire. It is usually performed with a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dhol"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb3 Dhol}}, which is a double-headed barrel drum. The dance can be anywhere from 5 minute to 30 minutes long. There are many different regional variations of attan, the most famous being Mahsudi, Kabuli, Paktiyaya, Shenwari, Kandahari, Sistani, Herati, Pashayi, and Nuristani. During King Yama's time, attan was performed before going to a war because it used to give the army the confidence that they could win the battle. Attan is the national dance of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Afghanistan"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Afghanistan}} and also a very popular dance in Pakistan's North-Western regions (Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province and parts of upper Balochistan) and has spread and become a part of festivals, weddings, and other forms of celebrations, and has its origins from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pashtuns"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb3 Pashtun}} areas.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Movement of the Dance\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \cb3 To the accompaniment of drums and pipes the dancers form a circle, taking each other by the hand or preparing to revolve in circles of their own. The dance starts with slow steps that gradually get faster and faster until it seems the performers must drop from exhaustion. However, the dance continues, sometimes for two or three hours at a stretch, with no breaks except a lowering of tempo or changes in the tunes and songs.\cb1 \
\cb3 What the Attan Dance consists of: The dancers gather in a circle, and then is followed by music which starts slow at first, and then gradually speeds up. There is a consistent beat and rhythm, and during that specific beat is when they clap inside the circle, so the movement of the hands is outside prior to the beat. It is then followed by the dancers bringing their hands out and then clapping inside the circle, and it is the same routine and pattern of movement, which then get faster. As the movements and routine get faster, the one clap turns into two claps, and the dancers who are more advanced, at times will add turns into the movements. All in all, they must keep the circular path with the clap on the beat, every other move added is up to the individuals who originate and add their own personal style to the dance. Common dance moves involve the extending of arms into air and the stretch and extension of legs. When extending arms into air, there are times when the hands are free or there is the waving of the regalia and extension of the attire to show the detail and color.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Taliban and the Attan\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \cb3 However puritanical the Taliban were, they refrained from prohibiting the Attan dance due to it being engrained into Pashtun culture, which many Taliban are a part of. There are even examples of the Taliban performing the Attan dance before engaging Western occupation forces in battle; this shows the prominence of the Attan in Paktunwali (the Pashtun code of honour). Even though women could not perform the Attan publicly, it was still common in weddings, celebrations and engagements behind closed doors.\
}