{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red28\green28\blue28;
\red9\green47\blue157;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;
\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Ballet\
#B\
#Europe - Italy, France and Russia\
#Solo #Couple #Group\
#Hard\
#Formal Perfomance\
#Varied\
#Pattern-based\
\
Video:\
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9rJoB7y6Ncs\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Ballet
\b0  (French:\'a0[bal\uc0\u603 ]) is a type of performance dance that originated in the Italian Renaissance courts of the 15th century and later developed into a concert dance form in France and Russia. It has since become a widespread, highly technical form of dance with its own vocabulary based on French terminology. It has been globally influential and has defined the foundational techniques used in many other dance genres. Becoming a ballet dancer requires years of training. Ballet has been taught in various schools around the world, which have historically incorporated their own cultures to evolve the art.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\i\b \cf2 \cb3 Ballet
\i0\b0  may also refer to a ballet dance work, which consists of the choreography and music for a ballet production. A well-known example of this is 
\i The Nutcracker
\i0 , a two-act ballet that was originally choreographed by Marius Petipa and Lev Ivanov with a music score by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky. Ballets are choreographed and performed by trained artists. Traditional classical ballets usually are performed with classical music accompaniment and use elaborate costumes and staging, whereas modern ballets, such as the neoclassical works of American choreographer George Balanchine, often are performed in simple costumes (e.g., leotards and tights) and without the use of elaborate sets or scenery.\
Ballet is a French word which had its origin in Italian 
\i \cb3 balletto
\i0 \cb3 , a diminutive of 
\i \cb3 ballo
\i0 \cb3  (dance) which comes from Latin 
\i \cb3 ballo
\i0 \cb3 , 
\i \cb3 ballare
\i0 \cb3 , meaning "to dance", which in turn comes from the Greek "\uc0\u946 \u945 \u955 \u955 \u943 \u950 \u969 " (
\i \cb3 ballizo
\i0 \cb3 ), "to dance, to jump about" The word came into English usage from the French around 1630.\
Ballet originated in the Italian Renaissance courts of the 15th and 16th centuries before being spread from Italy to France by an Italian aristocrat, Catherine de' Medici, who became Queen of France. In France, ballet developed even further under her aristocratic influence. The dancers in these early court ballets were mostly noble amateurs. Ballets in this period were lengthy and elaborate and often served a political purpose. Ornamented costumes were meant to impress viewers and restricted performers' freedom of movement.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The ballets were performed in large chambers with viewers on three sides. The implementation of the proscenium arch from 1618 on distanced performers from audience members, who could then better view and appreciate the technical feats of the professional dancers in the productions.\cb1 \
\cb3 French court ballet reached its height under the reign of King Louis XIV. Known as the Sun King, Louis symbolized the brilliance of France. In 1661 Louis founded the Acad\'e9mie Royale de Danse (Royal Dance Academy) to establish standards and certify dance instructors. In 1672, Louis XIV made Jean-Baptiste Lully the director of the Acad\'e9mie Royale de Musique (Paris Opera) from which the first professional ballet company, the Paris Opera Ballet, arose. Lully is considered the most important composer of music for ballets de cour and instrumental to the development of the form.\cb1 \
\cb3 Ballet went into decline in France after 1830, though it continued to develop in Denmark, Italy, and Russia. The arrival in Europe on the eve of First World War of the Ballets Russes of Sergei Diaghilev, revived interest in the ballet and started the modern era. The Russian choreographer Michel Fokine challenged tradition and called for reforms that reinvigorated ballet as an art form.\cb1 \
\cb3 In the 20th century, ballet had a strong influence on other dance genres, and subgenres of ballet have also evolved. In the United States, choreographer George Balanchine developed what is now known as neoclassical ballet. Other developments include contemporary ballet and post-structural ballet. Also in the twentieth century, ballet took a turn dividing it from classical ballet to the introduction of modern dance, leading to modernist movementsin several countries. Famous dancers of the 20th century include Rudolf Nureyev, Margot Fonteyn, Rosella Hightower, Maria Tall Chief, Erik Bruhn, Mikhail Baryshnikov, Suzanne Farrell, Gelsey Kirkland, Natalia Makarova, and Arthur Mitchell.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\i \cf2 \cb3 Maiden Tower
\i0  written by Afrasiyab Badalbeyli is the first ballet in the Muslim East.}