{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red28\green28\blue28;
\red9\green47\blue157;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;
\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Belly Dance\
#B\
#Asia- Middle East\
#Solo\
#Moderate\
#Formal Performance \
#Varied\
#Free-flow\
\
Video:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Belly dance
\b0  is an expressive dance which emphasizes complex movements of the torso. Originally a Middle Eastern folk dance, it has evolved to take many different forms depending on the country and region, both in costume and dance style. New styles have evolved in the West as its popularity has spread globally.\
The term "belly dance" is a translation of the \cb3 French\cb3  term "danse du ventre", which was applied to the dance in the \cb3 Victorian era\cb3 , and probably originally referred to dancers from the \cb3 Ouled Nail\cb3  tribes of \cb3 Algeria\cb3 . Its current use is something of a misnomer, as the \cb3 Ouled Nail\cb3  dance used more abdominal movements than the dances described today as "belly dance".\cb1 \
\cb3 In Arabic, the dance is known as Raqs Sharqi ("Eastern Dance") or Raqs Beledi("Country Dance" or "Folk Dance").\
Belly dance is primarily a torso-driven dance, with an emphasis on articulations of the hips. Unlike many Western \cb3 dance\cb3  forms, the focus of the dance is on isolations of the \cb3 torso\cb3  muscles, rather than on movements of the limbs through space. Although some of these isolations appear similar to the isolations used in jazz ballet, they are sometimes driven differently and have a different feeling or emphasis.\cb1 \
\cb3 In common with most folk dances, there is no universal naming scheme for belly dance movements. Some dancers and dance schools have developed their own naming schemes, but none of these is universally recognised.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Movements found in belly dance\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \cb3 Many of the movements characteristic of belly dance can be grouped into the following categories:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Percussive movements
\b0  - Staccato movements, most commonly of the hips, used to punctuate the music or accent a beat. Typical movements in this group include hip drops, vertical hip rocks, outwards hip hits, hip lifts and hip twists. Percussive movements using other parts of the body can include lifts or drops of the ribcage and shoulder accents.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Fluid movements
\b0  - Flowing, sinuous movements in which the body is in continuous motion, used to interpret melodic lines and lyrical sections in the music, or modulated to express complex instrumental improvisations. These movements require a great deal of abdominal muscle control. Typical movements include horizontal and vertical figures of 8 or infinity loops with the hips, horizontal or tilting hip circles, and undulations of the hips and abdomen. These basic shapes may be varied, combined and embellished to create an infinite variety of complex, textured movements.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Shimmies, shivers and vibrations
\b0  \'96 Small, fast, continuous movements of the hips or ribcage, which create an impression of texture and depth of movement. Shimmies are commonly layered over other movements, and are often used to interpret rolls on the or riq or fast strumming of the oud or qanun (instrument). There are many types of shimmy, varying in size and method of generation. Some common shimmies include relaxed, up and down hip shimmies, straight-legged knee-driven shimmies, fast, tiny hip vibrations, twisting hip shimmies, bouncing 'earthquake' shimmies, and relaxed shoulder or ribcage shimmies.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 In addition to these torso movements, dancers in many styles will use level changes, travelling steps, turns and spins. The arms are used to frame and accentuate movements of the hips, for dramatic gestures, and to create beautiful lines and shapes with the body, particularly in the more balletic, Westernised styles. Other movements may be used as occasional accents, such as low kicks and arabesques, backbends, and head tosses.}