{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red28\green28\blue28;
\red10\green0\blue109;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;
\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Calusari\
#C\
#Europe\
#Group\
#Hard\
#Formal performance #Social #Circular\
#Fast\
#pattern-based\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec4 The 
\b Calusari
\b0   were the members of a \strokec5 Romanian\strokec4  fraternal secret society who practiced a ritual acrobatic dance known as the 
\b calus
\b0 . According to the Romanian historian \strokec5 Mircea Eliade\strokec4 , the Calusari were known for "their ability to create the impression of flying in the air" which he believed represented both the galloping of a horse and the dancing of the fairies (
\i \strokec5 zine
\i0 \strokec4 ). Indeed, the group\'92s patron was the "Queen of the Fairies" (
\i Doamna Z\'eenelor
\i0 ), who was also known as \strokec5 Irodiada\strokec4  and \strokec5 Arada\strokec4 , and who Eliade connected with the folkloric figure \strokec5 Diana\strokec4 .\
Due to their connection with the fairies, the Calusari were believed to be able to cure the victims of fairies and for around two weeks - from three weeks after \strokec5 Easter\strokec4  till \strokec5 Pentecost\strokec4  - would travel to all the local communities where they would dance, accompanied by a few fiddlers, in order to do so. In their dance, the Calusari carried clubs and a sword, as well as a flag and a wooden horsehead. They swore on the group\'92s flag to treat each other as brothers, to respect the customs of the Calusari and to remain \strokec5 chaste\strokec4  for the next nine days. Upon their return home, their flag was fixed into the ground, with one member climbing it and crying out "war, dear ones, war!\'94.\
The origins of the Calusari are unknown, although the first written attestations are from the 17th century musical notations of \strokec5 Ioan Caianu\strokec4 . Eliade noted that "Although the oath taken is made in the name of God, the mythico-ritual scenario enacted by the calusari has nothing in common with \strokec5 Christianity\strokec4 " and that, in the 19th century at least, there was clerical opposition to the group, with its members being excluded from taking \strokec5 communion\strokec4  for three years in some regions.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb6 \strokec3 Etymology
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec4 The Romanian historian of religion \strokec5 Mircea Eliade\strokec4  believed that the term Calusari originated with the Romanian word for \strokec5 horse\strokec4 , 
\i cal
\i0 , from the Latin 
\i caballus
\i0 .\
The generally accepted derivation of 
\i Calus
\i0  is from the old Latin double form "collusium, collusii", meaning both "a dance group" and "a secret society", however other derivations have been proposed. The Romanian word 
\i calus
\i0  also means "a small piece of wood placed in the mouth to prevent talking", and derivation from this word has some support from the presence of the mute figure in some groups, and the ritual silence that used to be observed by the entire group. Others see 
\i calus
\i0  as a diminutive of 
\i cal
\i0  "horse", in turn derived from the \strokec5 Latin\strokec4  
\i caballus
\i0 , and point to the horse's mythical associations with fertility and war, as well as the imitation of horses found in certain C\uc0\u259 lu\u537  dances, although these dances do not currently play a principal role in the ritual. Another theory is that it derives from "Coli-Salii", the Roman priests dedicated to the worship of Mars.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \strokec3 Description
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec4 Traditionally, the Calusari group is a secret, male-only society associated with a spring rite, possibly a remnant of tribal warrior societies. The group leader (usually an older man) recruits a number of acolytes, always young, single adults chosen for physical prowess. The group members take an oath of secrecy, whereupon they participate in an initiation rite and taught the forms of the dance. The groups of Calus\uc0\u537 ari roam the country in spring-time, visiting villages by turns and taking part in the week-end dances - \strokec5 hora\strokec4 .\
The calus is a male \strokec5 group dance\strokec4 , although there are records of traditions from \strokec5 Oltenia\strokec4  region that included 1-2 young girls, now obsolete. A "bride" would be chosen by the group from each village they passed through, based on her dancing skills. The "bride" would be oath-bound to join in the ritual dance, for three years in a row.\
Dancers wear white trousers and white tunics, with brightly coloured ribbons streaming from their hats. Bells are attached to their ankles, and dances include the use of ornate sticks held upright whilst dancing, or pointing at the ground as a prop. The dance itself is highly acrobatic, emphasizing extension and high jumps, much like the \strokec5 Ceili dance\strokec4 .\
Like many \strokec5 Morris dances\strokec4 , in many traditions Calusari dancers include a fool, known as the 
\i "nebun"
\i0 , or "crazy".\
The dance includes the following elements.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa28\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The starting figure of walking (
\i plimbari
\i0 ), or a \strokec5 basic step\strokec4 , in a circle moving counter clockwise.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb6 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 More complex figures (
\i miscare
\i0 ) performed in place between walking steps.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb6 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Figures are formed from combinations of elements, often have a beginning-middle-end structure.}