{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red28\green28\blue28;\red10\green0\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Country-western two-step\
#C\
#America\
#Couple \
#Easy\
#Social #Participatory\
#Slow\
#Pattern-based\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 The 
\b country/western two-step
\b0 , often called the "Texas two-step" or simply the "two-step,"\super  \nosupersub is a country/western dance usually danced to country music in common time. "Tradtitional [Texas] two-step developed, my theory goes, because it is suited to fiddle and guitar music played two-four time with a firm beat [found in country music]. 
\i One-two, one-two, slide-shuffle."
\i0 \
The Texas two-step is the same step known to ballroom dancers as the international fox-trot. Except for the one-step, which is just that, most Texas dances are variations of a two-step, also called a half-step, which is simply a step-close-step. The Texas two-step is generally done with two long steps and a step-close-step to two-four time. Speeded up, it's a shuffle or double shuffle, but still a two-step.\cb1 \
\cb4 As with other country/western dances, there are different versions of two step. Even the same dance may go by different names depending on the area of the United States, and even in the particular dance hall. There may be no "correct" way to do a particular dance. "Every dance floor presents a variety of styles. ... Every region, every village, has its own way of doing the waltz and two-step." The two-step is related to the polka, the Texas waltz, and the jitterbug.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 Texas Two-Step\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf5 The two-step is a partner dance, consisting of a "leader" and a "follower." The leader determines the movements and patterns of the pair as they move around the dance floor. It is a \cf6 progressive dance\cf5  that proceeds counterclockwise around the floor. Usually, the two people dancing are man and woman, or woman and woman, but rarely man and man. Generally, the man would lead the dance as the "leader," and in the cases where they dance in the circle, the man dancing in the inside of the circle.\
The partners generally begin in \cf6 closed position\cf5  with the leader facing the \cf6 line of dance\cf5 . The follower stands facing the leader. In a traditional "frame" the leader places their right hand over the partner's left shoulder. In the more contemporary styling, closed position is formed by placing the right hand under the follower's left arm, on their back. In either case, the leader holds the follower's right hand in their left hand at about shoulder height.\
Other dance positions include:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa28\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sweetheart: side by side, the lead's right hand on the follower's right shoulder, and the left hands together near the left shoulder.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Shadow: side by side, the follower's right hand on the back of their right hip, Lead's right hand placed in the Follower's, Lead's left hand at approximately hip level on the left side, Follower reaches their left hand across to place in the Lead's.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Wrap (cuddle): side by side, follow's left arm crossing their body and holding lead's right hand. Follower's right arm crosses over their left and Lead places their left in it.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Skater: side by side\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Promenade: both facing line of dance\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reverse Promenade: both backing line of dance\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 \cb4 QQS\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf5 The Deux Temp, also known as Two-Step, was described by Wilson in 1899. Her description can be read as step, together, change weight onto other foot.\
Traditionally, Two-Step includes three steps: a quick step, a quick step, and then a slow step. In modern times, this is also known as Texas Polka. It can be danced to music with either a 2/4 or 4/4 time signature.\
Older dance manuals specified the best effect is achieved when dancers have a smooth gliding motion in time to the music. For example, the 1939 book "Cowboy Dances" states that, "The real two-step should be smooth and beautiful to watch. But in a Western dance it is quite in kind to make it joyous and bouncy." Modern styles however continued with the smooth style and added a slight "lilt."\
This same step pattern, step, close, step, with a timing of quick quick slow was given as the definition of Country-Western Two-Step in 1983.\
This Two-Step is a dance with roots in European and Mexican dance history and appeared in Germany and Hungary in the 1800s. Similar steps danced at Mexican fandangos were also an influence.\
Dance positions include: an open position with the lead's right hand on the follower's left shoulder, a closed position with no space between the partners, and a closed overhand position in which the lead wraps their left forearm over the follower's right forearm and clasps their hand with the palm against the back of the follower's hand. A "side by side", "shoulder hold", "cape", or varsouviana position is also used.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 QQSS\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf5 Originally called the Texas Shuffle Step (or Foxtrot step), at some point this became better known as Texas Two-Step, which is now the most common dance with that name. Danced to music with 4/4 time signature, it consists of four steps with timing quick, quick, slow, slow, where the pattern of movement is often referred to as "Step-together, walk, walk." This Two-Step has been taught as early 1983.\
The Two-Step can be danced over a fairly wide range of tempos, such as 130 bpm to over 200 bpm. Accomplished dancers can dance to tempos above 185 bpm. The United Country Western Dance Council (UCWDC) lists the Two-step at 180-210 BPM, while the Country Western Dance International (CWDI) lists the Two-step at 160-192 BPM.\
Basic two-step consists of two quick steps, followed by two slow steps (or alternately, two slow steps followed by two quick steps). Dancing may start with either the slow steps, or the quick steps, as the local custom dictates.\
The leader begins by stepping forward with his left foot. The follower begins by stepping backward with her right foot.\
Formally, the quick steps are full strides, with one foot passing the other on each step. However, in informal situations, particularly when the beat of the music is fast, the second quick step may be a shuffle, with the foot that's behind after the first quick step sliding up to, but not even with, the foot in front.\
This style has roots with the \cf6 Foxtrot\cf5  and basic two-step patterns are equivalent to those of many other progressive partner dances.\
More advanced figures can be \cf6 syncopated\cf5 , following other patterns such as QQSQQS or QQQQSS (where Q represents a quick step and S a slow step).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 Variations
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf5 Other dance styles related to the two-step exist.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 Shadow dancing\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf5 In 
\b shadow dancing
\b0 , a variation found in some gay country/western venues, the follower stands in front of the lead and both face down the line of dance. The lead places his/her right hand over the follower's midsection or belt buckle, and the follower places his/her right hand over the lead's hand. The lead takes the follower's left hand in his/her own and holds it loosely out to the left in a position similar to the one used in standard two-stepping.\
The count is the same as for the non-shadow two-step. The follower uses the same footwork as the lead in this case, beginning on the left foot. The lead propels the follower down the floor, with bodies touching or close together, as though the lead were the follower's shadow. The pair will normally turn and weave, and the lead may turn the follower before returning to standard position. The lead may also bring the follower behind him/her, giving the appearance of having swapped roles but with the lead still in control, and the lead may then bring the follower back in front.\
The rhythm for the country shadow is not the same as that for the two-step. The shadow is done to a swing or shuffle step which has the same footwork as the two step, but the timing of the steps is different. In two-step, it's danced to a 4/4 time with one basic done in 3 counts (SSQQ) where each slow is 1 beat and each quick is 1/2 of a beat. The dancers end up on the same foot free each time so it takes 4 measures to get back to the first beat of the measure with the first dance step.\
In shadow, the timing is more shuffle where the music is most often a 6/8 time. This is essentially a swing step beat. The shadow pattern is the same as the two step (2 slows and 2 quick steps), but it's not the same timing. It's more closely counted as "shuffle, step, step" where the shuffle is 3 counts of exactly the same timing. One could argue that the patter from the QQS is the same as the shuffle, but since it's done to a different music timing, that is incorrect. Many people count it as if it were a two step (SSQQ or QQSS), but that doesn't mean they don't alter the timing to match the music which then becomes a shuffle step.\
To see this in action, observe any country western dance club. You will never see anyone doing the shadow to a two-step. But the minute a swing or shuffle is played, many folks take to the floor to do the shadow.}