{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red28\green28\blue28;\red10\green0\blue109;\red82\green35\blue83;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;\cssrgb\c40000\c20000\c40000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Dandiya Raas\
#D\
#Asia\
#Couple #Group\
#Moderate\
#Formal Performance #Participatory\
#Varied\
#Pattern-based\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 \cb4 \strokec5 Dandiya Raas
\b0  is the traditional \strokec6 folk dance\strokec5  form of \strokec6 Gujarat\strokec5  & \strokec6 Rajasthan\strokec5  \strokec6 India\strokec5 , and is associated with scenes of \strokec6 Holi\strokec5 , and \strokec6 lila\strokec5  of \strokec6 Krishna\strokec5  and \strokec6 Radha\strokec5  at \strokec6 Vrindavan\strokec5 . Along with \strokec6 Garba\strokec5 , it is the featured \strokec6 dance\strokec5  of \strokec6 Navratri\strokec5  evenings in \strokec6 Western India\strokec5 . During \strokec6 Navratri\strokec5  festival, in most of the cities of \strokec6 Gujarat\strokec5  & \strokec6 Rajasthan\strokec5  people gather and perform \strokec6 Garba\strokec5  dance - an event that is becoming increasingly popular in countries with large Gujarati-speaking communities around the world, such as Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 \strokec2 Etymology
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec5 The word "Raas" comes from the \strokec6 Sanskrit\strokec5  word "\strokec6 Rasa\strokec5 ". The origins of Raas can be traced to ancient times. \strokec6 Lord Krishna\strokec5  performed \strokec6 Rasa lila\strokec5 " (\strokec7 Lila\strokec5  means Lord Krishna's playful dance. The word "Laika" also refers to things that God does that we fully understand).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 \strokec2 Forms of Raas
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec5 There are several forms of Raas, but "Dandiya Raas", performed during \strokec6 Navaratri\strokec5  in \strokec6 Gujarat\strokec5  is the most popular form. Other forms of Raas include Dang Lila from \strokec6 Rajasthan\strokec5  where only one large stick is used, and "\strokec6 Rasa lila\strokec5 " from \strokec6 North India\strokec5 . Raas Lila and Dandiya Raas are similar. Some even consider "\strokec6 Garba\strokec5 " as a form of Raas, namely "Raas Garba".\
In Dandiya Raas men and women dance in two circles, with sticks in their hands.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 \strokec2 Origin of Dandiya Raas
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec5 Originating as devotional \strokec6 Garba\strokec5  dances, which were always performed in Durga's honour, this dance form is actually the staging of a mock-fight between the Goddess and \strokec6 Mahishasura\strokec5 , the mighty demon-king, and is nicknamed "The Sword Dance". During the dance, dancers energetically whirl and move their feet and arms in a complicated, \strokec6 choreographed\strokec5  manner to the tune of the music with various rhythms. The \strokec6 dhol\strokec5  is used as well as complementary percussion instruments such as the \strokec6 dholak\strokec5 , \strokec6 tabla\strokec5 , \strokec6 bongos\strokec5  and others.\
The sticks (
\i dandiya
\i0 s) of the dance represent the \strokec6 swords\strokec5  of Durga. The women wear traditional dresses such as colorful embroidered \strokec6 choli\strokec5 , \strokec6 ghagra\strokec5  and \strokec6 bandhani\strokec5  \strokec6 dupattas\strokec5  (traditional attire) dazzling with mirror work and heavy jewellery. The men wear special turbans and kedias, but this varies regionally.\
Garba is performed before \strokec6 Aarti\strokec5  (worshipping ritual) as devotional performances in the honor of the Goddess, while Dandiya is performed after it, as a part of merriment. Men and women join in for Dandiya Raas, and also for the Garba. The circular movements of Dandiya Raas are much more complex than those of Garba. The origin of these dance performances or \strokec6 Raas\strokec5  is \strokec6 Krishna\strokec5 . Today, Raas is not only an important part of \strokec6 Navratri\strokec5  in Gujarat, but extends itself to other festivals related to harvest and crops as well. The Mers of Saurastra are noted to perform Raas with extreme energy and vigor.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 \strokec2 History
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec5 The Dandiya Raas dance originated as devotional Garba dances, which were performed in Goddess Durga\'92s honor. This dance form is actually the staging of a mock-fight between Goddess Durga and Mahishasura, the mighty demon-king. This dance is also nicknamed \'91The Sword Dance\'92. The sticks of the dance represent the sword of Goddess Durga.\
The origin of these dances can be traced back to the life of Lord Krishna. Today, Raas is not only an important part of Navaratri in Gujarat but extends itself to other festivals related to harvest and crops as well.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 \strokec2 Format
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec5 Raas is also performed at social functions and on stage. Staged Raas can be very complex with intricate steps and music. Raas is a \strokec6 folk art\strokec5  and it will change with the times. When African slaves and ship workers (who were \strokec6 Muslims\strokec5 ) arrived on the coast of \strokec6 Saurashtra\strokec5 , they adopted Raas as their own and used \strokec6 African drums\strokec5 . While it originated from Hindu tradition, it was adopted by the Muslim community as Saurashtra. Singing entered the Raas scene later on. Initially, most songs were about Lord Krishna, but songs about love, praise of warriors who fought gallant wars, and the Goddess \strokec6 Durga\strokec5 , and even Muslim Raas songs were born.\
The motif is also found represented in trade textiles as early as the 15th century in the prestigious double ikats woven with silk threads (known as patolas) that were traded by Indian (and later European traders) for Southeast Asia's spices. Most originated in Gujarat, the most famous of all of India's patola centres. Because of their rarity and perceived value, we are lucky to have some still in existence today emerging from Indonesian collections.\
It is common to think that Raas has to be fast, but that is not the case. Grace and slow movements are just as important. With the advent of C-60 cassettes came the pre-recorded "non stop" Raas music. Soon it overtook the individual Raas items which are rarely recorded nowadays. The \strokec6 disco\strokec5  beat and use of western drum became popular, but you can still visit fine arts college in \strokec6 Vadodara\strokec5  during Navaratri where the musicians sit in the centre and play while people dance around them. \strokec6 Gujarati movies\strokec5  entered the scene in late 50's and 60's. Raas took on a different form as it borrowed heavily from the film industry.\
There are other unique forms of Raas such as one in the town of Mahuva where men would tie one hand to a rope extending from above and hold a stick in the other hand. This was strictly in praise of Goddess \strokec6 Durga\strokec5 . If you use broader definition, even "\strokec6 Manjira\strokec5 " can be used to do Raas. There are communities that specialize in Raas with "Manjira". Just like the \strokec6 British police\strokec5 , some men dancing at "Tarnetar" used to wear colourful bands of cloth around their legs, resembling socks. The city of Mumbai developed its own style of Dandiya Raas. Now, during Navratri people use Dandiya, but make it more like a free style dance. "Head bobbing" during Raas is popular in USA among youngsters, but that arrived from the Gujarati movies. Head bobbing was for the singers, not for the dancers.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf3 \strokec2 Costumes and music\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf3 \strokec5 The women wear traditional dresses such as colorful embroidered \strokec6 choli\strokec5 , \strokec6 ghagra\strokec5  and \strokec6 bandhani\strokec5  dupattas, which is the traditional attire, dazzling with mirror work and heavy jewellery. The men wear special turbans and kedias, but can range from area to area. The dancers whirl and move their feet and arms in a choreographed manner to the tune of the music with a lot of drum beats. The dhol is used as well as complementary percussion instruments such as the dholak, tabla, et cectra. the true dance gets extremely complicated and energetic. Both of these dances are associated with the time of harvest.
\f1\fs36 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf5 \strokec5 \
}