{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red28\green28\blue28;\red10\green0\blue109;\red147\green68\blue70;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;\cssrgb\c64706\c34510\c34510;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Diablada\
#D\
#America\
#Group\
#Easy\
#Formal Performance\
#Varied\
#Free-flow\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 \strokec5 The 
\b Diablada
\b0  or 
\b Danza de los Diablos
\b0  (English: Dance of the Devils), is a dance characterized by the mask and devil suit worn by the performers. The dance is a mixture of religious theatrical presentations brought from \strokec6 Spain\strokec5  and Andean religious ceremonies such as the 
\i \strokec6 Llama llama
\i0 \strokec5  dance in honour of the \strokec6 Uru\strokec5  god \strokec6 Tiw\strokec5  (protector of mines, lakes, and rivers),\super \strokec6  \nosupersub \strokec5 and the Aymaran miners' ritual to \strokec6 Anchanchu\strokec5  (a demon spirit of caves and other isolated places in \strokec6 Bolivia\strokec5  and \strokec6 Per\'fa\strokec5 ).\
The Diablada's origins are in \strokec6 Oruro, Bolivia\strokec5 . The dance is known in \strokec6 Puno\strokec5  in \strokec6 Peru\strokec5 , and \strokec6 La Tirana\strokec5  in \strokec6 Chile\strokec5 \'97it is also not uncommon for the dance to be used as a symbol for these country's indigenous cultural identity.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \strokec3 Etymology\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \strokec5 The name was consolidated in Oruro from 
\b 1789
\b0  to 
\b 1944
\b0 , where masked groups which participated in parades dressed in devil costumes came to be known as 
\i Diabladas
\i0 . In 1904, the first group with the label 
\i Diablada
\i0  originated, the "\strokec7 Great Traditional Authentic Diablada Oruro\strokec5 ," with a defined music, dress, choreography, and plot. This period culminated with the founding of new groups of 
\i Diabladas
\i0  in 1944, consolidating the denomination.\strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 History\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa28\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\b0 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Oruro, Bolivia: Its earliest record found in pre-Hispanic times, the dance of "\strokec6 Llama llama\strokec5 "in worship of the \strokec6 Uru\strokec5  god \strokec6 Tiw\strokec5 , dance subsequent ironically devoted Aymara language of the \strokec6 Urus\strokec5  dance dressed as devils, as recorded by \strokec6 Ludovico Bertonio\strokec5 . Ethnohistorical development process of disguise and the dance of Diablada fall into three periods, according to the document sent by \strokec6 Carnaval de Oruro\strokec5  to the Organization of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (\strokec6 Unesco\strokec5 ) proclaimed as one of the \strokec6 Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity\strokec5 : Periods of 1606 to 1789, 1789 to 1944 y 1944 to 1960.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Potos\'ed, Bolivia: The dance could have had its beginnings in another city of modern-day \strokec6 Bolivia\strokec5 , such as in the city of \strokec6 Potos\'ed\strokec5 , back then a miner's settlement during the \strokec6 Spanish conquest\strokec5 , from where it later spread to \strokec6 Oruro\strokec5  and other parts of the \strokec6 Altiplano\strokec5 .\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Juli, Peru: The 
\i Diablada
\i0  would have been introduced in 1576 to the native \strokec6 Lupakas\strokec5  people of \strokec6 Juli\strokec5 , located near \strokec6 Lake Titicaca\strokec5  in the Altiplano of present-day \strokec6 Puno\strokec5 , Peru; and from there it allegedly spread to other parts of the Spanish domain in the Americas.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb4 \strokec3 Native American roots\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \strokec5 The debate about the patrimonial identity of the 
\i Diablada
\i0  concerns its roots as well. Chilean and Peruvian organizations suggest that since this dance is inspired in the Andean civilizations previous to the formation of the current national borders, it should belong equally to the three nations and other \strokec6 Andean states\strokec5  such as \strokec6 Argentina\strokec5  and \strokec6 Ecuador\strokec5  as well. Bolivian cultural organizations and government label this as an "unlawful cultural heritage appropriation" and consider that the declaration of the 
\i \strokec6 Carnaval de Oruro
\i0 \strokec5  as one of the \strokec6 Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity\strokec5  gives Bolivia and the city of Oruro support on this claim. Bolivian scholars such as the professor of ethnomusicology and cultural heritage, Diego Echevers T\'f3rrez, express that the 
\i Diablada
\i0  is not the mere representation of the devils in a defined space, but constitutes the cultural heritage of the city of Oruro with specific actors and environment.\strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Aymaran roots theory\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \strokec5 The scholars who defend the theory of \strokec6 Juli\strokec5  (\strokec6 Peru\strokec5 ) identify the roots of this dance with the \strokec6 Aymaran\strokec5  traditions of the \strokec6 Lupakas\strokec5 . Based on the written accounts of 16th century historian and writer \strokec6 Inca Garcilaso de la Vega\strokec5 , the Lupaka natives of Juli in the year 1576 presented their version of the 
\i Autos Sacramentales
\i0  taught to them by Spanish Jesuit priests. The director of the cultural group 
\i Yuyachkani
\i0  of Peru, Miguel Rubio Zapata, during an interview in 2007 with the Punean mask maker, Edwin Loza Huarachi, proposes linking the \strokec6 Diablada Pune\'f1a\strokec5  with the myth of the \strokec6 Anchanchu\strokec5 , a pre-Hispanic \strokec6 Aymara\strokec5  deity. Also, researchers Peter McFarren, Sixto Choque, and Teresa Gisbert state that the 
\i Diablada
\i0  has roots to the Aymaran narrative of the 
\i Myth of the Supaya
\i0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \strokec3 Uru roots theory\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \strokec5 After the declaration of the 
\i Carnaval de Oruro
\i0  as one of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity on 18 May 2001, the \strokec6 UNESCO\strokec5  delegated their ex-ambassador in Bolivia, Iv\'e9s de la Goublaye de Menorval, the task to be the moderator of the project and handed a form to the Bolivian authorities to be filled in coordination with historians and folklorists, such as Ramiro Condarco Morales, Mario Monta\'f1o Arag\'f3n, Fernando Caj\'edas, Alberto Guerra Guti\'e9rrez, Javier Romero, El\'edas Delgado, Carlos Condarco Santill\'e1n, Marcelo Lara, Zenobio Calizaya, Zulma Yugar, Walter Zambrana and Ascanio Nava.\
The document elaborated by this group is based in the theory that the modern 
\i Diablada
\i0  has roots in the ancient rituals performed 2000 years ago by the \strokec6 Uru civilization\strokec5 . The study makes reference to a deity named \strokec6 Tiw\strokec5  who was the protector of the Urus in mines, lakes and rivers and, in the case of Oruro (or 
\i Uru-uru
\i0 ), the owner of caves and rocky shelters. The Urus worship this deity with the 
\i dance of the devils
\i0  being the 
\i Tiw
\i0  himself the main character, later this name was Hispanicized as 
\i T\'edo
\i0  (English: uncle), and as product of the \strokec6 syncretism\strokec5 , the 
\i Tiw
\i0  represented the figure of the \strokec6 devil\strokec5  regretting and becoming devotee of the \strokec7 Virgin of Socav\'f3n\strokec5 .\
During the times of the \strokec6 Tahuantinsuyu\strokec5 , the four administrative entities known as 
\i \strokec6 suyus
\i0 \strokec5  had their own representative dances during the \strokec7 Ito festival\strokec5 , a festivity once celebrated throughout the entire empire but, according to the historian Jos\'e9 Mansilla V\'e1zquez, who based on manuscripts of \strokec6 Fray Mart\'edn de Mur\'faa\strokec5 , says that these festivities were outlawed during the \strokec6 Viceroyalty of Peru\strokec5  with the exception of \strokec6 Oruro\strokec5  which, for being considered an important miner city in the 16th century, counted with some privileges and the Spanish authorities looked to the other way allowing this festivity persist in this city, adapting itself later into the Spanish traditions between the 
\i \strokec7 Carnestolendas
\i0 \strokec5  and the 
\i \strokec6 Corpus Christi
\i0 \strokec5  becoming into the Carnaval of Oruro over the centuries.\
The ancient authors, Fray Mart\'edn de Mur\'faa and \strokec6 Felipe Guaman Poma de Ayala\strokec5  make reference in their works to the different dances of the area, including the dance of the 
\i \strokec6 Llama llama
\i0 \strokec5 , name given by the \strokec6 Aymaras\strokec5  to refer to the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uros"}}{\fldrslt \strokec6 Urus}} dressed as dancing demons, as it was recorded by \strokec6 Ludovico Bertonio\strokec5 . This dance was performed during the Ito festivities by the representatives of the region known as \strokec7 Urucolla\strokec5 , a sub-region of the south-eastern 
\i suyu
\i0  of \strokec6 Collasuyu\strokec5  located in the lake system of the \strokec6 Department of Oruro\strokec5  between the basins of the lakes \strokec6 Poop\'f3\strokec5  and \strokec6 Coipasa\strokec5 , where the Uru civilization had the city of Oruro as their main social centre, becoming together with \strokec6 Nazca\strokec5  and \strokec6 Wari\strokec5  one of the most ancient cities in the \strokec6 Andean world\strokec5 .\
The supporters of this theory consider that the \strokec7 Uru mythology\strokec5  is reflected in the symbolism of the 
\i Diablada
\i0 . The legend behind the importance of the city of Oruro as an ancient sacred place for the Urus tells the story of the \strokec6 chthonic\strokec5  deity \strokec7 Wari\strokec5 , which in the \strokec6 Uru language\strokec5  means 
\i soul
\i0  (\strokec6 Uru\strokec5 : 
\i hahuari
\i0 ). He, after hearing that the Urus were worshiping \strokec6 Pachacamaj\strokec5 , represented by \strokec6 Inti\strokec5 , unleashed his revenge by sending plagues of \strokec6 ants\strokec5 , \strokec6 lizards\strokec5 , \strokec6 toads\strokec5  and \strokec6 snakes\strokec5 , animals considered sacred in the Uru mythology. But they were protected by the \strokec7 \'d1usta\strokec5  who adopted the figure of a \strokec6 condor\strokec5 , defeating the creatures petrifying them and becoming sacred hills in the four cardinal points of the city of Oruro; these animals are also often represented in the traditional masks of the 
\i Diablada
\i0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 ...//...The Spanish banned these ceremonies in the seventeenth century, but they continued under the guise of Christian liturgy: the Andean gods were concealed behind Christian icons and the Andean divinities became the Saints. The Ito festival was transformed into a Christian ritual, celebrated on Candlemas (2 February). The traditional 
\b llama llama
\b0  or 
\b diablada
\b0  in worship of the Uru god Tiw became the main dance at the Carnival of Oruro.//...\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \strokec3 Choreography\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \strokec5 In its original form, the dance was performed to accompany a band of 
\i \strokec6 Sikuris
\i0 \strokec5 , which were a group of musicians playing the 
\i \strokec6 Siku
\i0 \strokec5 . Nowadays, the 
\i Diablada
\i0  in the Altiplano is accompanied by band and orchestra. The uniformity of the suits brought choreographic innovation, with the layout of steps, movements, and figure designs that are not only ready to be staged in open areas such as roads, streets, and public squares; but also in places such as theaters and \strokec6 arenas\strokec5 . At the start of the \strokec6 krewe\strokec5  are Lucifer and Satan with several 
\i China Supay
\i0 , or devil women. They are followed by the personified \strokec6 seven deadly sins\strokec5  of pride, greed, lust, anger, gluttony, envy, and sloth. Afterwards, a troop of devils come out. They are all led by \strokec6 Saint Michael\strokec5 , with a blouse, short skirt, sword, and shield.\
During the dance, \strokec6 angels\strokec5  and \strokec6 demons\strokec5  are constantly moving around while forming somewhat complex figures such as crosses and circles. This confrontation between the two sides is eclipsed when \strokec6 Saint Michael\strokec5  appears, battles, and defeats \strokec6 the Devil\strokec5 . Both characters are dressed in heavy costumes that are highly ornate and finely wrought. The weight of the costume is more of a challenge than an obstacle for the different dance groups. The dancers often attempt to make unique and complex choreographies. The result is a colourful dance, creating a show very much appreciated by the public.\
The choreography have three versions, each conformed by seven moves.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \strokec3 First version\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa28\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Greetings:
\b0  The dance starts with formations and greetings to the Virgin. The characters are displayed in two columns with the evil characters (\strokec6 Satan\strokec5 , \strokec6 Lucifer\strokec5  and \strokec7 China Supay\strokec5 ) to one side, the \strokec6 Archangel Saint Michael\strokec5  to the other and the \strokec6 Condor\strokec5  in the middle. In formation they greet the rest of the devils to both sides.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Movings:
\b0  The devils start their greetings in groups of four jumping bouncing on one or other foot.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Crossings of devil's step:
\b0  S-shape crossings in couples and individuals.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Curl:
\b0  One column starts a spiral advancing to the centre then the other. Satan and Lucifer stand in the shoulders of several devils to tell their tale.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Star:
\b0  Represents the rebellion of the rest of the devils against the angel. The figure represented is an inverted \strokec6 Pentagram\strokec5  as the \strokec6 Sigil of Baphomet\strokec5  or the 
\i Signature of the Devil
\i0 . Once the devils are knelled the angel enters marching.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	6.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Star banish:
\b0  Once the angel says "Oh evil spirits, get out of these places" the star is dissolved, the angel pronounces a speech and the devils representing the \strokec6 seven deadly sins\strokec5  \strokec6 confess\strokec5  towards the angel who says "Against arrogance" and the devil yells "Humility!" and regretful and with the head low retires to his row, once the sins are defeated the devils are under the command of the angel and the triumph or joy dance is interpreted.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	7.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Squads:
\b0  Formations with jump-step in rows of four, three, two, and one in front of the angel.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb4 \strokec3 Second version\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa28\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Movings:
\b0  In each column there are two leaders named guides or back-guides. The Archangel Saint Michael directs the moves with a whistle, to its signal the devils come from outside to the place of the angel while the 
\i China Supay
\i0 , Satan and Lucifer switch places with him. To the second signal the devils do the same move but jumping. In the centre there is a complementary character such as the bear or condor.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Curl:
\b0  The spiral is formed and the guides or back-guides hold Satan in their shoulders who pronounces his speech. Then the band plays a slow march and the angel enters with martial step and with a cross and a mirror dazzles the devils and they return to their original places.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Street:
\b0  There is a representation of the struggle between Lucifer and the angel who wins, then Satan comes to defend his friend and is defeated too. Finally the she-devil 
\i China Spuay
\i0  representing sin and flesh comes and is defeated as well. Then the angel returns to his original position.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Squads:
\b0  The 
\i China Supay
\i0  and the angel on one side and Lucifer and Satan to the other dancing make switches and the devils greet them in groups of four and two.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Star:
\b0  The shape is formed and with the signal of the whistle the devils kneel, the band plays a slow march and the angel enters to the centre and the star is dissolved calling to the seven deadly sins who defeated go back to their places. Then the guides switch places.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	6.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Chain:
\b0  The dancers do a double chain and dancing holding by their arms first with the right arm then with the left one and going back to their places.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	7.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 End:
\b0  The devils go to the centre in groups of four, three two and one finishing the show.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb4 \strokec3 Third version\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \strokec5 The third version is the one performed by the squad \strokec7 Gran Tradicional y Aut\'e9ntica Diablada Oruro\strokec5 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Introduction Devil's walk:
\b0  The devils in the left column start the movement while the ones in the right one follow them. Lucifer and Satan are named the "Kings", they are placed behind followed by the Angel and the China Supay and the band to the right side behind the second column of devils. The Kings break the formation followed by the devils, and the Condor and Bear who stay in the middle. Then the Angel and the China Supay go forward passing the middle ones by the side.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa28\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\b \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 The greet:
\b0  The Kings in the front corners, the Angel and the China Supay in the back corners, and the Bear in the middle. Each perform a greeting movement.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Curl:
\b0  The devils go to the back then the left column go forward and Lucifer who is in the front meets them in the middle while the circle closes around him, he is picked up for his dialogue with Satan or to be cheered.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Star:
\b0  The devils form the star then kneel and stand up again.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 By four:
\b0  The squad advances in groups of four, then breaking the formation retiring themselves to each column.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 By three:
\b0  The same movement but this time in groups of three.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	6.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 By two:
\b0  Same movement as the two previous ones in couples.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0
\b \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	7.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 By one:
\b0  The devils go to the back by the side followed by the Kings, the angel and the China Supay then advance in zig zag drawing a snake, then leaving the scenario led by the Kings.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 \strokec3 \
}