{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red28\green28\blue28;
\red10\green0\blue109;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;
\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 DUP\
#D\
#Africa\
#Group\
#Easy\
#Participatory #Circular\
#Slow\
#Free-flow\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The 
\b Dances of Universal Peace
\b0  (
\b DUP
\b0 ) are a spiritual practice employing singing and dancing the sacred phrases of the world's religions. Their intention is to raise consciousness and promote peace between diverse religions according to one stated goal. The DUP are of North American \strokec5 Sufic\strokec4  origin. They combine chants from many world faiths with dancing, whirling, and a variety of movement with singing.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 The Dances\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 Five to 500 dancers stand in a \strokec5 circle\strokec4  often around a leader and musicians, with acoustic instruments, in the center, All dances are participatory and spectatorship is somewhat discouraged because joy is the goal, not technical performance of specified dance steps or forms. Dances are facilitated by a dance leader often playing a drum, guitar, flute or other stringed instrument. For lyrics, dances borrow inspirational poetry, quotes and \strokec5 chants\strokec4  which are sung as the dance is performed. Chants are often \strokec5 sacred\strokec4  phrases put to traditional, contemporary or occasionally improvesed melodies. A wide range of languages are deliberately employed including \strokec5 Arabic\strokec4 , \strokec5 Aramaic\strokec4 , \strokec5 English\strokec4 , \strokec5 Hawaiian\strokec4 , \strokec5 Hebrew\strokec4 , \strokec5 Persian\strokec4 , and \strokec5 Sanskrit\strokec4 . Dance promoters use diverse religious practices, chants and languages to demonstrate how joy lives at the heart of each and all religions. Dance leaders tend to believe peace can be promoted through experiencing the same One Joy through diverse dance steps, chants, and languages.\
The DUP emphasis is on participation regardless of ability; DUP dances are almost never performed before an audience. Dancers of all levels; including children able to follow along, dance together. Each dance is taught afresh at each gathering. Dances and dancing of this kind is seen as opportunity to develop participants' spiritual awareness, hand-eye-body coordination, and competency in harmonizing with others through dance. Many dances are choreographed with movements, steps, and gestures encouraging dancers to explore the deeper \strokec5 mystical\strokec4  meanings of the dance.\

\b History\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 The Dances of Universal Peace were first formulated in the late 1960s by \strokec5 Samuel L. Lewis\strokec4  (Sufi Ahmed Murad Chisti) and were conducted in \strokec5 California\strokec4 . The original dances were strongly influenced by Samuel Lewis' spiritual relationships with \strokec5 Ruth St. Denis\strokec4 , a modern dance pioneer, and Hazrat \strokec5 Inayat Khan\strokec4 , a Sufi master. The influence on the dances of Sufi practices such as \strokec5 Sema\strokec4  and \strokec5 The Whirling Dervishes\strokec4  are apparent, although Samuel Lewis was also a \strokec5 Rinzai Zen\strokec4  master and drew on the teachings of various religious and spiritual traditions.\
Dances were originally performed at camps and meetings with a distinctly \strokec5 new age\strokec4  and alternative feel but have increasingly come to be offered in diverse places of worship, schools, colleges, prisons, hospices, residential homes for those with special needs, and \strokec5 holistic health\strokec4  centers. The therapeutic uses of the Dances as well as the walking meditations developed by Samuel Lewis have also been explored in various settings. The Dances have developed into a global movement due to the work of the International Network for the Dances of Universal Peace founded in 1982 by Neil Douglas-Klotz and Tasnim Fernandez, teachers in the \strokec5 Sufi Ruhaniat International\strokec4  and \strokec5 Sufi Order International\strokec4  respectively. Both have continued to be leading exponents of the Dances and Douglas-Klotz's creation of Dances using the Aramaic words of Jesus have entered many alternative and mainstream religious circles. The Network has members in 28 countries.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \strokec6 Criticism
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec4 The \strokec5 Catholic Church\strokec4  has criticized its priests for participating in and promoting the Dances of Universal Peace.\super \strokec5  \nosupersub \strokec4 Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger (later: \strokec5 Pope Benedict XVI\strokec4 ) dismissed \strokec5 Matthew Fox\strokec4  from the \strokec5 Dominican Order\strokec4  for his activities which included promotion of the Dances of Universal Peace. Since that time Fox went on to become a vocal critic of Ratzinger and his policies.}