{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red28\green28\blue28;\red255\green255\blue255;\red10\green0\blue109;
\red147\green68\blue70;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;
\cssrgb\c64706\c34510\c34510;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Grizzly Bear \
#G\
#America\
#Couple\
#Easy\
#Social #Participatory\
#Varied\
#Free-flow\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The 
\b Grizzly Bear
\b0  is an early 20th-century dance style. It started in San Francisco, along with the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunny_Hug"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Bunny Hug}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_Tommy_(dance)"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Texas Tommy}} and was also done on the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Staten_Island"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Staten Island}} ferry boats in the 1900s. It has been said that dancers {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=John_Jarrott&action=edit&redlink=1"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 John Jarrott}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Louise_Gruenning&action=edit&redlink=1"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Louise Gruenning}} introduced this dance as well as the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turkey_trot_(dance)"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Turkey Trot}} at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ray_Jones_Caf%C3%A9&action=edit&redlink=1"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Ray Jones Caf\'e9}} in Chicago, Illinois around 1909. The Grizzly Bear was first introduced to Broadway audiences in the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ziegfeld_Follies"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Ziegfeld Follies}} of 1910 by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fanny_Brice"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Fanny Brice}}.\
The dance was rough and clumsy. During the dance, the dancers would yell out: "It's a Bear!" The genuine Grizzly Bear step was in correct imitation of the movements of a dancing bear, moving or dancing to the side. A very heavy step to the side with a decided bending of the upper part of the body from one side to the other, a decidedly ungraceful and undignified movement when performed as a dance.\
It was reported that one of the reasons former President {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Woodrow_Wilson"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Woodrow Wilson}}'s {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_presidential_inaugural_balls"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 inaugural ball}} was cancelled was because of his "disapproval of such modern dances as the turkey trot, the grizzly bear and the bunny hug". Not long before this, in 1912, New York placed the dance under a "social ban", along with other "huggly-wiggly dances", like the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turkey_trot_(dance)"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Turkey Trot}} and the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Boston_Dip&action=edit&redlink=1"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Boston Dip}}. It was also condemned in numerous cities across the US during the same time period, with many considering it to be a "degenerate dance".\
However, a large portion of society accepted the dance, along with other similar dances. The Grizzly Bear dance was featured "on Broadway, in vaudeville, and at cabaret performances". In fact, it is believed that the first introduction to the "general public" of the dance came about in the original "Broadway production of 
\i Over the River
\i0 " in 1912.\
In 2015, Boulder-based contemporary dance artist {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Christopher_Reetz&action=edit&redlink=1"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Christopher Reetz}} revitalized interest in the "Grizzly Bear". In a February 2015 interview, Reetz described his interpretation of the dance: "First, you're riding a bear. Then, you are the bear".\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf6 \strokec6 In popular culture\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\sa28\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs28 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 In the 1912 song hit 
\i That Shakespearian Rag
\i0  by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dave_Stamper"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Dave Stamper}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene_Buck"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Gene Buck}}, the dance is referenced in the refrain.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 In episode 2, season 1, of the British television period drama {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Downton_Abbey"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 Downton Abbey}}, the footman Thomas Barrow teaches the kitchen maid Daisy how to dance the grizzly bear.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 One of the early Tin Pan Alley hits of the classic composer Irving Berlin was called "The Grizzley Bear." The song explains the origins of the dance and even describes how the dancers danced to this ragtime ditty.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 In episode 2, in miniseries Indian Summers on PBS, the Grizzle Bear Dance is performed by some of the British expatriate population during an evening soiree.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Folk-rock group The Youngbloods released their song "Grizzly Bear" in 1966, which mentions a woman dancing the Grizzly Bear, possibly in San Francisco.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Folk singer Bill Morrissey's song, "Grizzly Bear", employs the phrase "... to dance the Grizzly Bear."\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\sa90\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs36 \cf6 \cb3 \strokec6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
}