{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red28\green28\blue28;\red9\green47\blue157;\red169\green0\blue3;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;\cssrgb\c72941\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hopak\
#H\
#Europe - Ukraine\
#Group #Solo\
#Hard\
#Participatory #Formal Performance\
#Fast\
#Free-flow\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Hopak
\b0 , also referred to as 
\b Gopak
\b0  or 
\b Cossack dance
\b0 , is a national Ukrainian dance. It is performed most often as a solitary concert dance by amateur and professional Ukrainian dance ensembles, as well as other performers of folk dances. It has also been incorporated into larger artistic opuses such as operas and ballets.\cb1 \
\cb3 The Hopak is often popularly referred to as the "National Dance of Ukraine". There are similar folkloric dance tunes known as 
\i Sirmpa
\i0  in Leros Greece.\

\b Etymology\

\b0 The name 
\i \cb3 hopak
\i0 \cb3  is derived from the verb 
\i \cb3 hopaty
\i0 \cb3   which means "to jump," as well as the corresponding exclamation 
\i \cb3 hop!
\i0 \cb3   which can be uttered during a jump as an expression of surprise or amazement.\

\b History\

\b0 The Hopak developed initially as a Kozak social dance , and was practiced in the lands of present-day Ukraine beginning in the 16th century. While the fortified Kozak Sich generally frowned upon amusements and diversions from military training, such regulations were overlooked when Kozaks returned victorious after battle. Kobzars and other musicians would gather their instruments - violins, bagpipes, cimbaloms, and fifes - while other participants would dance.\
These celebratory 
\i \cb3 hopaky
\i0 \cb3  were performed only by male participants, as they took place in an all-male environment. The performers were young, boisterous mercenaries, and not professional dancers; as such, the dance steps performed were predominantly improvisational, reflecting the performers' sense of manliness, heroism, speed and strength. The steps exhibited included many acrobatic jumps . Often fights from the battlefield would be re-enacted in pantomime, with real swords, lances or other weaponry, as the performer lashed out at invisible enemies. These dances were not tied down to specific rhythms, and the dancers could change tempo at any point.\cb1 \
\cb3 Such festive dancing differed greatly in character from the older ritual dances , such as the Khorovod, which had previously been the dominant choreographic works in Ruthenian lands. A primary distinction was the gender of the participants\'a0\'96 all male\'a0\'96 as opposed to the predominantly all-female ritual dances.\cb1 \
\cb3 With the elevation of Kozak status in the region, 
\i \cb3 hopaky
\i0 \cb3  began to appear in the villages within their domain. Unlike the all-male dances found in the Sich, these dances were mixed, with young boys and girls dancing celebratory movements together. While the lead role was retained by male performers, structural elements began to be added in, such as circle forms and pairs moving together in formation; these developments most likely were derived from the choreographic history of ritual dances in the area.\cb1 \
\cb3 None of the dances performed by Kozaks during this time were ever recorded. Guillaume Le Vasseur de Beauplan recorded the fact that Kozaks danced in such a manner, and other historical accounts verify this. Later, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivan_Kotlyarevsky"}}{\fldrslt \cb3 Ivan Kotliarevsky}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taras_Shevchenko"}}{\fldrslt \cb3 Taras Shevchenko}} incorporated the Hopak and dancing Kozaks into their works. However, with the destruction of the Sich in the 18th century, the dance survived only in its mixed-gender village format as a celebratory dance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Concert dance\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \cb3 After Hopak-like dances began to be performed on stage in the 18th century in Serf and Peasant theaters, professional dramatic troupes began to incorporate this popular dance into their repertoire. These performances only incorporated the Hopak into a larger opus, such as Kotliarevsky's operetta 
\i Natalka Poltavka
\i0 . It was the pioneering work of a performer in a dramatic ensemble, the ethnochoreologist Vasyl Verkhovynets, in the early 20th century, that enable the dance to develop into its current format. Verkhovynets' initial work entailed gathering authentic village steps throughout central Ukraine and constructing dances which more accurately represented the Ukrainian cultural tradition. His break-through, however, was demonstrating that staged Ukrainian dance could exist as a distinct performing art, in the form of concert dance. He and his disciple Vasyl Avramenko began staging performances throughout western Ukraine, forming troupes of dancers in village after village.\cb1 \
\cb3 In the spring of 1935, the \cb3 All-Union Organization of Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries\cb3  agreed to send a delegation to the upcoming \cb3 First International Festival of the Folk Dance\cb3  in London. Verkhovynets worked with \cb3 Leonid Zhukov\cb3  of the T. Shevchenko Kyiv Opera and Ballet, and professional dancers from both the Kyiv and \cb3 Kharkiv Opera\cb3  houses, on constructing a suite to represent the Ukrainian SSR. For his part, Verkhovynets choreographed what became known as the "London Hopak" : this was a 3-part dance, consisting of a men's dance (much like the original Kozak dance), a second, slower segment danced only by women, and finally a rousing closing with both male and female dancers sharing the stage. This dance, along with Zhukov's addition, won the first prize at the festival that summer. The 3-part Hopak was later reprised in September back in Ukraine as part of the opera, Zaporozhets za Dunayem. The format of the 3-part Hopak was subsequently adopted by many professional folk dance ensembles who have choreographed their own variants of Hopak through the years.\cb1 \
\cb3 In 1990, twenty members of the State Folk Dance Ensemble of the Ukrainian SSR, split off and created the Hopak! Ukrainian Dance Company, Ukraine's first independent professional dance company, under the direction of Sergei Makarov.}