{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 NotoSansSyriacEastern;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red28\green28\blue28;\red255\green255\blue255;\red10\green0\blue109;
\red9\green47\blue157;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;
\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Khigga\
#K\
#Africa - Middle East\
#Group\
#Easy\
#Social #Circular\
#Slow\
\
Video:\
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M0KDMyOyiiQ
\b\fs28 \
\

\b0\fs24 Khigga is a style of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assyrian_folk_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Assyrian folk dance}} in which multiple dancers hold each other's hands and form a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circle_dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 circle}}. There are multiple foot patterns that dancers perform. Its thought to have been danced for thousands of years. It is usually performed at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weddings"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 weddings}} and other joyous occasions.\
\
Khigga is traditionally danced with music played on the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zurna"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb3 zurna}}, supported by a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Davul"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb3 davul}}, but in recent years, electronic instruments have started to replace them.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb3 The khigga has spread from Anatolia to many other regions, such as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Armenia"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb3 Armenia}} and the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Balkans"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb3 Balkans}}. The khigga is a group of traditional hand-holding {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dance"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb3 dances}} similar to those from the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Balkans"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb3 Balkans}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eastern_European"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb3 Eastern European}} countries, with a single or a couple of figure dancers often added to the geometrical centre of the dancing circle.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb3 In Assyrian weddings, as well as parties and other various social gatherings, people may dance khigga for hours. Every region has its own style and forms. Khigga is simple to dance and it is the first beat that is played in welcoming the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bride"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb3 bride}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Groom"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb3 groom}} to the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wedding_reception"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb3 reception}} hall.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Technique
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 As with most Assyrian folk dances, khigga assumes an open circular shape. In a restricted floor space (e.g. a lot of tables), the dance tend to wind over the room and assume {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spiral"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb3 spiral}}, circular and curvy shapes.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb3 Arms are predominantly used which usually move independently of the legs. Arm motions include bouncing, swinging forward and back, moving side-to-side. The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torso"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb3 torso}}, along with the shoulders and arms, bounces up and down rhythmically, often independently of the legs. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stomp_(strike)"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb3 Stomps}} and stamps are also present.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb3 Khigga has other sub-styles such as "Heavy Khigga" or "Normal Khigga". Heavy simply means the same dance beat but slower. Khigga goes by the time signature of 4/4 and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tempo"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb3 tempo}} between 100 and 115.\cf2 \cb1 \
\cf2 \cb3 The head of the khigga line, referred to as "resha d'khigga" (
\f1 \uc0\u1834 \u1821 \u1835 \u1808 
\f0  
\f1 \uc0\u1813 \u1818 \u1811 \u1808 
\f0 ), usually dances with a 
\i \cf2 \cb3 yalekhta
\i0 \cf2 \cb3  (
\f1 \uc0\u1821 \u1824 \u1818 \u1836 \u1808 
\f0 ), or a handkerchief with beads and bells added to the sides so it jingles when shaken. A Yalekhta can have many different designs on the piece of cloth. A "copala" (
\f1 \uc0\u1823 \u1816 \u1830 \u1824 \u1808 
\f0 ), or decorated cane, is also used at many Assyrian weddings.}