{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red28\green28\blue28;
\red9\green47\blue157;\red0\green0\blue0;\red169\green0\blue3;\red39\green79\blue173;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;
\cssrgb\c2353\c27059\c67843;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c72941\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c20000\c40000\c73333;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Lindy Hop\
#L\
#America - USA\
#Couple\
#Moderate\
#Social\
#Fast\
#Free-flow #Acrobatic\
\
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ahoJReiCaPk\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The 
\b Lindy hop
\b0  is an American dance that evolved in Harlem, New York City, in the 1920s and 1930s and originally evolved with the jazz music of that time. It was very popular during the Swing era of the late 1930s and early 1940s. Lindy was a fusion of many dances that preceded it or were popular during its development but is mainly based on jazz, tap, breakaway, and Charleston. It is frequently described as a jazz dance and is a member of the swing dance family.\cb1 \
\cb3 In its development, the Lindy hop combined elements of both partnered and solo dancing by using the movements and improvisation of Black dances along with the formal eight-count structure of European partner dances \'96 most clearly illustrated in the Lindy's basic step, the swingout. In this step's open position, each dancer is generally connected hand-to-hand; in its closed position, leads and follows are connected as though in an embrace.\cb1 \
\cb3 There was renewed interest in the dance in the 1980s from American, Swedish, and British dancers and the Lindy hop is now represented by dancers and loosely affiliated grass-roots organizations in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Oceania.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lindy hop is sometimes referred to as a street dance, referring to its improvisational and social nature.\

\b History\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Swing era (1920s\'961940s)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \cb3 The Lindy hop was born in African-American communities in Harlem, New York, in the United States, from about 1927 into the early 1930s. It originated from four possible sources, or some combination thereof: the breakaway, the Charleston, the Texas Tommy, and the hop.\cb1 \
\cb3 A recorded source of the dance's name is famed aviator Charles Lindbergh, nicknamed "Lucky Lindy", who "hopped the Atlantic" in 1927. After Lindbergh's solo non-stop flight from New York to Paris in 1927 he became incredibly popular and many people named businesses and other things after him. Te Roy Williams and His Orchestra recorded the song "Lindbergh Hop," written by Ted Nixon and Elmer Snowden, on May 25, 1927.\cb3 \super  \cb3 \nosupersub The Memphis Jug Band on September 13, 1928 recorded "Lindberg Hop- Overseas stomp," written by Jab Jones and Will Shade.\cb1 \
\cb3 Just 10 days after Lindbergh landed at Le Bourget, a 'Lindy Hop' dance was described by columnist Gilbert Swan (Reno Gazette, May 31, 1927). He wrote, "Obviously the first dance named for the Lindbergh flight was the 'Lindy Hop'...Like all trick dances, they will be done in a few theatres and dance halls, where experts appear, and that will be that". Later that year, on Sep 14, the Woodland Daily Democrat reported Catherine B Sullivan describing the 'Lindy Hop' as having been placed 3rd in the Dancing Masters of America, New Dances competition, behind the Kikajou, and the Dixie Step. ( 'Lindy Hop' also described in reports as the 'Lindbergh Glide'). The journalist reports that Miss Johnson showed a very fast little step, with hops and a kick, whilst holding the arms out , like the Spirit of St Louis. The foot work is described as "dum-de-dum, dum-de-dum, dum-de-dum".\cb1 \
\cb3 According to Ethel Williams, the Lindy hop was similar to the dance known as the Texas Tommy in New York in 1913. The basic steps in the Texas Tommy were followed by a breakaway identical to that found in the Lindy. Savoy dancer "Shorty" George Snowden stated that "We used to call the basic step the Hop long before Lindbergh did 
\i \cb3 his
\i0 \cb3  hop across the Atlantic. It had been around a long time and some people began to call it the Lindbergh Hop after 1927, although it didn't last. Then, during the marathon at \cb3 Manhattan Casino (New York City)\cb3 , I got tired of the same old steps and cut loose with a breakaway..." According to Snowden, Fox Movietone News covered the marathon and took a close-up of Shorty's feet. As told to \cb3 Marshall\cb3  and Jean Stearns, he was asked "What are you doing with your feet," and replied, "The Lindy". The date was June 17, 1928.\cb1 \
\cb3 The first generation of Lindy hop is popularly associated with dancers such as "Shorty" George Snowden, his partner Big Bea, and Leroy Stretch Jones and Little Bea. "Shorty" George and Big Bea regularly won contests at the Savoy Ballroom. Their dancing accentuated the difference in size with Big Bea towering over Shorty. These dancers specialized in so-called floor steps.\cb1 \
\cb3 As white people began going to Harlem to watch black dancers, according to Langston Hughes: "The lindy-hoppers at the Savoy even began to practice acrobatic routines, and to do absurd things for the entertainment of the whites, that probably never would have entered their heads to attempt for their own effortless amusement. Some of the lindy-hoppers had cards printed with their names on them and became dance professors teaching the tourists. Then Harlem nights became show nights for the Nordics."\cb1 \
\cb3 Charles Buchanan, manager of the Savoy, paid dancers such as Shorty Snowden to "perform" for his clientele. According to Snowden, "When he finally offered to pay us, we went up and had a ball. All we wanted to do was dance anyway." When "Air steps" or "aerials" such as the Hip to Hip, Side Flip, and Over the Back (the names describe the motion of the follow in the air) began to appear in 1936, the old guard of dancers such as Leon James, Leroy Jones, and Shorty Snowden disapproved of the new moves.\cb1 \
\cb3 Younger dancers fresh out of high school (Al Minns, Joe Daniels, Russell Williams, and Pepsi Bethel) worked out the Back Flip, "Over the head", and "the Snatch".\cb1 \
\cb3 Frankie Manning was part of a new generation of Lindy hoppers, and is the most celebrated Lindy hopper in history. Al Minns and Pepsi Bethel, Leon James, and Norma Miller are also featured prominently in contemporary histories of Lindy hop. Some sources credit Manning, working with his partner Freida Washington, for inventing the ground-breaking "Air Step" or "aerial" in 1935. One source credits Al Minns and Pepsi Bethel as among those who refined the air step. An Air Step is a dance move in which at least one of the partners' two feet leave the ground in a dramatic, acrobatic style. Most importantly, it is done in time with the music. Air steps are now widely associated with the characterization of lindy hop, despite being generally reserved for competition or performance dancing, and not generally being executed on any social dance floor.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lindy hop entered mainstream American culture in the 1930s, gaining popularity through multiple sources. Dance troupes, including the Whitey's Lindy Hoppers (also known as the Harlem Congaroos), Hot Chocolates and Big Apple Dancers exhibited the Lindy hop. Hollywood films, such as Hellzapoppin' and A Day at the Races began featuring the Lindy hop in dance sequences. Dance studios such as those of Arthur Murray and Irene and Vernon Castle began teaching Lindy hop. By the early 1940s the dance was known as "New Yorker" on the West Coast.\cb1 \
\cb3 Lindy hop moved off-shore in the 1930s and 40s, again in films and news reels, but also with American troops stationed overseas, particularly in the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and other Allied nations. Although Lindy hop and jazz were banned in Nazi Germany, both were popular in other European countries during this period.\cb1 \
\cb3 In 1944, due to continued involvement in World War II, the United States levied a 30 percent federal excise tax against "dancing" nightclubs. Although the tax was later reduced to 20 percent, "No Dancing Allowed" signs went up all over the country.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Post-swing era (1950s\'961960s)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \cb3 Arthur Murray's 1954 edition of 
\i \cb3 How to Become a Good Dancer
\i0 \cb3  included four pages of instruction for swing, covering the basic Lindy step, the double Lindy hop, the triple Lindy hop, the sugar foot walk, and the tuck-in turn. A chapter is devoted to Lindy hop in the 1953 and 1958 editions of 
\i \cb3 Dancing Made Easy
\i0 \cb3 .\cb1 \
\cb3 The 1962 
\i \cb3 Ballroom Dancebook for Teachers
\i0 \cb3  included an entire chapter on "Lindy".\cb1 \
\cb3 According to the book 
\i \cb3 Social Dance
\i0 \cb3  (copyrighted in 1969), by 1960 the Lindy hop was known as "swing".\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \cb3 Revival (1980s and 1990s)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \cb3 Sandra Cameron and Larry Schulz of the Cameron Dance Center Inc in New York were instrumental in bringing Al Minns and Frankie Manning back into teaching Lindy hop at their dance center. Minns joined the dance center and began a swing program there in 1981. Frankie Manning joined the Center in 1985.\cb1 \
\cb3 Al Minns' early students formed the basis for the New York Swing Dance Society, established in 1985.\cb1 \
\cb3 In the 1980s, American and European dancers from California, New York, London and Sweden (such as Sylvia Sykes, \cb3 Erin Stevens\cb3 , \cb3 Steven Mitchell\cb3 , Terry Monaghan and Warren Heyes who formed London's 
\i \cb3 Jiving Lindy Hoppers
\i0 \cb3  performance troupe, and Stockholm's Rhythm Hot Shots / Harlem Hot Shots) went about "reviving" Lindy hop using archival films such as 
\i \cb3 Hellzapoppin'
\i0 \cb3  and 
\i \cb3 A Day at the Races
\i0 \cb3  and by contacting dancers such as Frankie Manning, Al Minns, and Norma Miller. In the mid-to-late 1990s the popularity of neo swing music of the swing revival stimulated mainstream interest in the dance. The dance was propelled to wide visibility after it was featured in movies such as 
\i \cb3 Swing Kids
\i0 \cb3  in 1993 and in the "Kakhis Swing" television commercials for GAP in 1998.\cb3 \super  \cb3 \nosupersub The popularity led to the founding of local Lindy hop dance communities in many cities.\cb1 \
\cb3 In 1999, 
\i \cb3 Swing!
\i0 \cb3  opened up on Broadway, featuring world-class Lindy hoppers Jenny Thomas and Ryan Francois, Latin swing dancer Maria Torres and her partner Carlos Sierra-Lopez, country swing stars Robert Royston and Laureen Baldovi, and west coast swing couple Beverly Durand and Aldrin Gonzales. Carol Bentley, Scott Fowler, Caitlin Carter, Edger Godineaux, Geralyn Del Corso, and Keith Lamelle Thomas were also featured in various swing-related dance pieces in the Tony-nominated show during its run at the St. James Theatre. The show closed in January 2001, yet continues to be set in regional and international cities around the world.\
}